
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to modelling and fostering an environment of mutual respect and civility between and among all stakeholders including members of the Board of Education, students, school system employees, parents, service providers, and each member of the community. The Board recognizes a culture of civility is critical to the success and well-being of students employees, and community members and is a necessary first step to establishing and maintaining relationships and a culture that recognizes the worth and dignity of the individual.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to set clear expectations for civil behavior between and among all Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) stakeholders to promote safe, engaging and supportive environments.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The HCPSS school and workplace environments will reflect the expected behaviors of civility while communicating and interacting among stakeholders. These behaviors include but are not limited to:




Respect and courtesy in language, demeanor, and actions



Respectful and appropriate tone and volume of voice



Respectful and active listening



Respectful acknowledgment of individual differences



Respectful acknowledgement of diversity



Respect for the personal, civil, and property rights of others



Respectful and courteous use of phone, public address systems, two-way radios, and any other verbal communication devices



Respectful and courteous written and digital communication, including but not limited to notes, letters, email, text messages, and social media.




V. Responsibilities





All individuals will behave in a civil manner while communicating and interacting with all HCPSS stakeholders.



All individuals will behave in a civil manner and cooperate in resolving incidents of uncivil behavior.



If individuals are unable to resolve incidents of uncivil behavior, the principal/supervisor or designee will facilitate a resolution.



The Superintendent/Designee will determine whether an incident occurring on school property violates an existing Board of Education policy. The Superintendent/Designee will respond appropriately and in a timely manner to all parties.



The Superintendent/Designee will provide for annual notification of this policy to students, employees, parents, and community members.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References





Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, §3-805 – Misuse of electronic communication or interactive computer service (“Grace’s Law”)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law



Article, §6-409, Trespass The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §26-101 and §26-102, School Security




VIII. History



ADOPTED: September 7, 2006
