
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) believes that the well-being and academic achievement of children is a responsibility shared by parents, families, the school system, and the community.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the school system that promote and encourage meaningful partnerships between and among schools, parents, families, and the community to support the social, emotional and academic growth of students.


III. Standards





HCPSS employees will establish and develop programs, communication guidelines, partnerships, and practices to cultivate a safe, engaging and supportive school environment, promote open communications, and provide opportunities for effective parent and community engagement.



The HCPSS will comply with the requirements of federal and state regulations related to parent and family engagement.



HCPSS Title I school employees will involve their schools’ parents in the development, implementation, and annual review of the Title I Parent and Family Involvement Plan, associated HCPSS policies, and Title I School Level Parent and Family Engagement Plan and School Parent Compacts.



HCPSS employees will encourage and support parents and families to be involved in their student’s education and to be effective partners in ensuring success in school for their students.



Principals will include students, parents, families and community members, in decision-making groups that impact school culture, climate, and the academic success of students when possible.



HCPSS employees will provide methods by which students, parents, families, and the community can submit suggestions for the continued improvement of the school system, including providing opportunities for these groups to communicate directly with the Board, such as at public hearings and through various digital platforms.



HCPSS employees will provide services to ensure access for all families to information, translation and interpretation services, technology support, opportunity to meet with support liaisons, and additional services as needed.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that HCPSS employees are provided professional development and resources to implement this policy and will monitor and evaluate the implementation of this policy and procedures.



Principals and HCPSS Central Office employees will include and provide formal and informal processes for addressing concerns of students, parents, families, and community members, and for providing input on HCPSS policies and procedures. Principals and HCPSS Central Office employees will share Family Best Practices referenced in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct to support engagement efforts.



Principals and HCPSS Central Office employees will provide dedicated staffing and funding to support student, parent, family, and community engagement (i.e., staffing: a collaborative team; funding: after school programming, activities, and staffing).



HCPSS employees will demonstrate a commitment to student, parent, family, and community engagement in the education process and will take appropriate steps to meet the mandates of this policy, including referencing the policy in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



Principals and HCPSS Central Office employees will develop and distribute information about opportunities for student, parent, family, and community engagement.



The Superintendent/designee will determine annually whether to recommend revision to this policy and implementation procedures based on HCPSS employee and stakeholder input.



The Superintendent/designee will provide annually to the Board a report detailing system-wide and school-level efforts on student, parent, family, and community engagement.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure this policy is in alignment with the Maryland Blueprint for Education.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent/designee is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




COMAR 13A.01.04.06



Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) 2015




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 22, 1994
