
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to maintaining an educational system that delivers exemplary curriculum and instruction as well as rigorous and innovative programs. The Board recognizes that public charter schools may be established in Howard County as an alternative means of providing innovative learning opportunities and creative educational approaches to enhance the educational experiences of its students.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines and procedures by which public charter schools may be established under the supervision of the Board, in accordance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations.


III. Standards





The Board is the only entity authorized to grant a Charter in Howard County.



A public charter school must abide by the provisions of all laws, policies, and regulations governing other public schools, except as provided by law or waiver.



A public charter school operates under the authority of the Board.



To establish a public charter school in Howard County, a completed formal Application to Form a Public Charter School within the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) may be submitted to the Board by the following:




The staff of a public school.



A parent of a student who attends a public school in the county.



A nonsectarian, nonprofit entity.



A nonsectarian institution of higher education in the state.




IV. Responsibilities





General




The Board will be the chartering authority for public charter schools in Howard County.



A public charter school will comply with all provisions of laws and regulations governing other public schools, unless the State and/or Board of Education of Howard County grants a waiver.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that prior to opening a public charter school, the operators of the school are informed of and address the human, fiscal, and organizational capacity needed to fulfill the school’s responsibilities related to students with disabilities.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is directed to develop a process for accepting and evaluating applications for public charter schools, for developing recommendations to the Board and for otherwise implementing this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. §§1400 et seq.



Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §794



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-205



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, § 6-401(d), §6-501(f), §6-501(g)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Title 9, Maryland Public Charter School Program



Public Charter School Improvement Act of 2015




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 23, 2003
