
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County acknowledges that foreign-born students and families may face unique circumstances that negatively impact their safety and learning environment unless appropriate safeguards are taken. The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) welcomes and supports all students and families, regardless of their place of birth or immigration status, and is committed to providing a safe, engaging, and supportive school climate in which individuals and families are valued and protected. The Board is committed to maintaining a culture that recognizes the worth and dignity of the individual in support of academic achievement and social and emotional development.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to set clear expectations for rights, protections, and supports of foreign-born students, their families, and students perceived to be foreign-born.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





As per Plyler v. Doe (1982), the HCPSS does not deny access to education based on a student’s immigration status or place of birth.



Any property owned or leased by the HCPSS is a safe zone for its students and their families.



Consistent with the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement(I.C.E.) 2011 policy directive, the HCPSS believes that schools are sensitive locations where immigration enforcement action should not occur. Unless federal, state, or local law mandates otherwise, immigration enforcement actions may not occur on any property owned or leased by the HCPSS.



HCPSS employees will have access to information, resources and supports that can be helpful to students and families who may be impacted by immigration enforcement actions.



HCPSS employees will not take any action that may discourage the participation or lead to the exclusion of students based on place of birth or immigration status.



HCPSS employees will not require students or their families to provide any information about their immigration status (except where specific rules apply to students in international exchange programs as defined in Policy 9000 Student Residency, Eligibility, Enrollment and Assignment).



The HCPSS will annually review its record-keeping policies and practices to ensure that no data is being collected or maintained with respect to students’ immigration status.



The HCPSS will not tolerate any harassment, bullying, cyberbullying, intimidation or discrimination on account of a student being foreign-born, their immigration status, or their perceived immigration status on any property owned or leased by the HCPSS or at school system activities.



The HCPSS will develop and maintain partnerships with community organizations and legal services organizations who provide resources for families, including families with questions about immigration laws and deportation.



The HCPSS will provide professional learning to HCPSS employees that:




Enhance interaction with foreign-born students and families.



Ensure that inquiries, requests for documentation, and the handling of student information comply with Plyler v. Doe (1982).



Provide training on responding to requests by federal immigration agents.



Assist students and their families in accessing resources and services offered by the school system and other agencies when made aware that they have been affected by immigration enforcement actions.




V. Responsibilities





All HCPSS employees will comply with the expectations for safe school environments.



The principal/designee will ensure training for school staff to connect families to resources.



The Superintendent/Designee will review record keeping policies and practices.



The Superintendent/Designee will enhance partnerships with community-based organizations who provide resources for families, including families with questions about immigration laws and deportation.



The Superintendent/Designee will provide annual professional development for employees and third parties on the provisions of this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will take action in response to a violation of this policy.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Homeland Security Act of 2002 - Section 462



Plyler v Doe, 457 U.S. 202 (1982)



William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protections Reauthorizations Act of 2008 - Section 235




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 2, 2018
