
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is the elected body responsible to the community for the education of their children and for the oversight and effectiveness of the Howard County Public School System The Board adopts the Vision, Mission and Overarching Commitments of the Superintendent’s Strategic Call to Action (SCTA) and, in support of them, the Board formulates and adopts educational policies that focus on student-centered practices, inclusive relationships, and responsive and efficient operations. Board governance will be carried out in compliance with the education and other relevant provisions of the Maryland Annotated Code and Code of Maryland Regulations.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to articulate the authority and responsibilities of the Board that are critical to its effective and efficient operation.


III. Standards





Beliefs




The work of the Board is based upon the following school system beliefs:




Every child can learn.



Each child is unique and has special abilities and interests that must be recognized and developed.



The education of all children is the shared responsibility of the home, school, and community.



Academics are a primary focus of education.



Teachers have a responsibility to engage every student in learning.



Students have a responsibility for their own learning and for their personal conduct.



Parents have a responsibility for setting values and expectations that support the learning process.



Lifelong learning is essential for productive and responsible participation in a diverse and changing world.




Teachers have the right to teach and students have the right to learn in a safe and nurturing environment.




IV. Responsibilities





The Board will direct and supervise the Superintendent, the Ombudsman, the Internal Auditor, and the Administrator to the Board.



The Superintendent will oversee the operational administration and organization of the school system and will take authority over and accountability for Department of Education and HCPSS staff.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to advise and assist the Board with its governance responsibilities.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article §3-103, §3-104, §3-701(a), §3-704



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article §4-101, §4-102, §4-103, §4-108, §4-109, §4-204, §4-205



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article §6-201, §6-202



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article §7-305



Md. Ann. Code, General Provisions, §3-301 through §501



Code of Maryland Regulations, Maryland State Board of Education, 13A.02.01




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 22, 2004
