
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education values the student perspective and supports opportunities for students to share their views and the views of their peers in meetings of the Board and other applicable venues. The Board encourages active student participation in the work of the Board through the position of Student Member of the Board of Education, and the positions of Student Representatives from each high school and middle school in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish nomination and election procedures and establish the roles and responsibilities of the Student Member of the Board of Education and Student Representatives.


III. Standards





The Student Member of the Board of Education is the official student liaison to the Board. Student Representatives will prepare reports to the Board on a schedule determined by the Board Administrator.



Student Member of the Board of Education




There will be one Student Member of the Board of Education who will serve a one-year term from July 1 through June 30.



The Student Member of the Board of Education will serve as a member of the Board in accordance with the Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article § 3-701.



Each applicant for the position will submit an application to be considered for nomination for the position of Student Member of the Board of Education. A systemwide Student Convention will be held to select two candidates, as well as two alternates, from the applicants.



The Student Member of the Board of Education will be elected by receiving the most votes cast by student voters systemwide under the oversight of Howard County Association of Student Councils (HCASC). Results will be appropriately shared with HCASC by each school when all votes are tallied. Board of Education members, candidates, and their principals will be informed of the results of the vote prior to public notification.



The Student Member of the Board of Education will have the same rights and privileges as an elected member, with the exception of restrictions against voting on specific matters, participation in appeals or confidential personnel matters, and attendance at closed sessions relating to restricted matters as cited in The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article § 3-701, and listed below in Section III.B.5.a.




The Student Member of the Board of Education will vote on all matters except those relating to:




Geographical attendance areas under § 4-109 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Acquisition and disposition of real property and matters pertaining to school construction under § 4-115 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Employment of architects under § 4-117 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Donations under § 4-118 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, specifically: school land, school site, or suitably located house adapted to school purposes.



Condemnation under § 4-119 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Consolidation of schools and transportation of students under § 4-120 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Appointment and salary of the county Superintendent under § 4-201 and  § 4-202 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Employee discipline and other appeals under § 4-205 (c) of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Budgetary matters under Title 5 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Appointment and promotion of staff under § 6-201 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Discipline of certificated staff under § 6-202 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Collective bargaining for certificated employees under Title 6, Subtitle 4 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Collective bargaining for noncertificated employees under Title 6, Subtitle 5 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.



Student suspension and expulsion under § 7-305 of The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the Student Member of the Board of Education is elected in accordance with this policy.



The Board Administrator will provide assistance, support, and guidance to the Student Member of the Board of Education to enable the Student Member of the Board of Education to carry out duties and responsibilities in accordance with this policy.



Secondary principals will take appropriate measures to ensure that their school will follow standardized procedures for elections to both the nominating convention and the Student Member of the Board of Education.



The Superintendent/designee will provide assistance to the Student Member of the Board of Education as necessary.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article



§ 3-701 (Howard County Board of Education)



§ 3-703 (Compensation and Expenses: Exclusions)



§ 4-109 (c) (Attendance Areas)



§ 4-115, 117, 118, 119, and 120 (Site Acquisition, Consolidation, Architect Selection, etc.)



§ 4-201 and § 4-202 (County Superintendent of Schools)



§ 4-205 (c) (Employee Discipline and Other Appeals)



§ 5-101 et. seq. (Budget and Reporting)



§ 6-201 (Appointment and Promotion of Staff)



§ 6-202 (Teacher Discipline)



§ 6-401 et. seq. (Collective Bargaining – Certificated Employees)



§ 6-501 et. seq. (Collective Bargaining – Non-certificated Employees)



§ 7-305 (Student Suspensions and Expulsions)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, § 5-507 (Placement of a child)



COMAR 13A.02.01 Local Boards of Education




VIII. History



ADOPTED: March 12, 1992
