
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County believes that public schools are strengthened when communities are actively engaged in the education process. In support of this belief, the Board is committed to providing multiple opportunities for responsible community participation in the operation of the school system. Advisory committees provide one means to achieve this objective and allow interested community members to become more deeply involved in the educational process.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for the establishment of advisory committees to the Superintendent and Department of Education and to schools.


III. Definitions



Advisory Committee – A committee convened in accordance with the public school laws of Maryland with the goal of providing broad input into the policies and operation of the school system or schools. Membership in advisory committees may include parents, teachers, students, and other community members.


IV. Standards





Advisory committees may be appointed by the Superintendent, leadership within the Department of Education, and/or the principals of schools in accordance with this policy as deemed necessary or appropriate.



Advisory groups established under this policy must have a specific charge which establishes their advisory role, pre-determined rules for operation, a projected timeline for completion of work, a contact person with overall responsibility, provisions for establishing membership, and a designation as to whom reports are submitted.



Public notice shall be given when advisory committees are established.



Each advisory committee shall establish its own procedures for receiving and responding to public input during its deliberations.



Except as specifically authorized by the Board, advisory committees shall not obligate the Board for the payment of any funds.




V. Compliance



The Superintendent/designee shall ensure that opportunities for community participation and employee involvement are provided through membership, as appropriate, on advisory committees to the various offices and programs of the Department of Education and to the schools.


VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to establish appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-112




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 10, 1975
