
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes that there will be occasions when it is necessary to respond to emergency incidents that threaten the safety or health of students and employees, or are disruptive to the operation of a school, multiple schools, or the school system. Advanced preparation and planning minimize risks inherent in any emergency. In certain instances, it may be necessary to take protective action, which may include closing a school, multiple schools, or the entire school system as a safety or health measure.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to define the process and establish criteria by which the school system prepares for and responds to incidents that threaten the safety or health of students and employees or are disruptive to the operation of a school, multiple schools, or the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Preparedness




HCPSS System-level, School-specific, and Non-school Facility Emergency Operations Plans (EOPs) comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, people with access and functional needs, the Maryland Safe to Learn Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.



The HCPSS will have a recovery plan that addresses the immediate, short-term, and long-term recovery process for the school system.



The HCPSS will have a COOP that provides guidance and processes for immediate recovery after an incident.



The Director of Security, Emergency Preparedness and Response serves as the HCPSS Incident Commander and will ensure that the school system plans and implementation procedures are developed and employees are trained regarding emergency preparedness.



HCPSS will have an EOP for each school and non-school facility in consultation with other health and safety officials within the community. Copies of each EOP are kept at the school or non-school facility and electronically in the Office of Safety and Security.



All HCPSS EOPs align with the Howard County Government EOP. HCPSS will maintain three separate emergency plans:




System-level plan – Provides guidance for managing an incident that affects multiple schools or the entire district.



School-specific plan – Provides guidance for managing an incident at a school.



Non-school facility plan – Provides guidance for managing an incident at a non-school facility.




V. Responsibilities





The Director of Security, Emergency Preparedness and Response will ensure that the EOPs and COOPs are developed and implemented. The Director will provide appropriate training for employees at each school and non-school facility and will annually access the EOPs to monitor effectiveness.



The Director of Transportation/designee will assess conditions in certain weather- related incidents and make recommendations to the Superintendent on emergency closures due to inclement weather based on the transportation functional annex of the HCPSS System-level EOP.



The Chief Communication, Community/Workforce Engagement Officer will establish the procedures for the dissemination of school closing and other emergency announcements and ensure that parents and employees are informed of emergency communication procedures at the start of each school year.




Internal Emergency Communications – Appropriate Board of Education employees affected by, or involved in the emergency will receive information as soon as possible following the emergency.



External Emergency Communications – Employees, families, and community leaders affected by the emergency will receive information as soon as possible following the emergency.




VI. Delegation of Authority




The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §§9-104, 4-205, 6-401(d),
6-501(f), Title 9



Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-103



Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. 1400-1487



Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 794




VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 5, 1971
