
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to an equitable and quality education and comparability of programs for all students. The Board welcomes and encourages donations from individuals, organizations, and corporations that enhance the educational or extracurricular experiences of students. The Board of Education recognizes, accepts, and appreciates the sovereignty of individuals, organizations, and corporations and their ability to conduct donations and donation campaigns independently. The Board also recognizes its need to ensure the appropriateness of the donations accepted. Therefore, the acceptance of donations, including donations from Parent Teacher Associations (PTAs), Parent Teacher Student Associations (PTSAs), Boosters, and other outside entities, must include a review of items to ensure their safety and usability by the school system. Accepted donations will be utilized in a manner that is consistent with the mission and vision of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for the review, acceptance, and refusal of donations.


III. Standards





All accepted donations become the property of the Board of Education of Howard County.



All donations will be used to supplement rather than supplant HCPSS educational programs.



Donations and donation campaigns that have an estimated value of $500 or more and/or constitute an improvement to real property, will be presented to the Board for acceptance by formal action. Donations that are automobiles are excluded from the requirements of this standard.



Donations and donation campaigns with a value of less than $500 do not require Board approval under the provisions of this policy. These donations must be presented to a school principal or department head for acceptance and approval, provided the donation meets all other provisions of this policy.



If the donation is a fixed asset, it will be processed in accordance with
Policy 4040 Fixed Assets
.



Donations submitted for acceptance must first be reviewed, inspected, and/or tested by HCPSS employees as appropriate. Certain donated items are required to meet specific industry certification. In addition, HCPSS employees may require that a donation be certified by an external source as meeting industry and HCPSS standards.



Any donation constituting an improvement to real property must comply with
Policy 6060 Community Improvements to School Sites or School Facilities
.



The provisions of this policy do not apply to gifts to individuals, which are addressed in
Policy 2070 Ethics
.



Use of a crowdfunding platform or donation campaign by HCPSS requires pre-approval from the principal for the purpose, content, and approved vendor platform.



Funds received through donation campaigns that exceed or fail to meet targets, will be used for other school educational needs. The potential needs will be detailed at the beginning of all campaigns.



Donations and donation campaigns managed by employees, schools, and school-sponsored organizations must possess the following to be accepted:




Have a purpose consistent with the mission and vision of the HCPSS.



Impose no undesirable, unacceptable, or hidden costs in terms of resources (employee time, maintenance, budget, materials, etc.) to the school system.



Place no unacceptable restrictions on educational or extracurricular programs or the school system.



Not endorse, either explicitly or implicitly, any business or product.



Not begin, continue or reinstate a program which the Board is unwilling or unable to consider funding when the donated funds are exhausted.



Meet all applicable federal, state, local, and school system regulations/guidelines associated with its construction or use.



Meet current safety and security standards.



Not be advertising. However, sponsorship of an activity is acceptable and recognition of sponsorship is permissible.




IV. Responsibilities





School principals and/or department heads will ensure that donations meet the criteria for acceptance in compliance with this policy.



Each school principal and/or department head serves as the fiduciary agent for his/her school/department and will ensure that all donations are accounted for and that donated funds and items are used for legitimate education-related purposes.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the donations he or she approves meet the criteria for acceptance in compliance with this policy.



Each school principal or department head will submit to the Finance Office an annual report of all donations received during the year.



The Superintendent/designee will prepare a monthly report of donations requiring Board acceptance in accordance with
Policy 4010 Donations
. This report will contain, by school, a list of donated items and their donor designation or planned use.



The Superintendent/designee will prepare an annual donations report in accordance with
Policy 4010 Donations
and
Policy 4020 Fundraising by Schools and School-Sponsored Organizations
. This report will contain, by school or program, a summary of donations.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop all necessary and appropriate procedures to implement and monitor compliance with this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Sections 4-108, 4-114, and 4-118




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 24, 1982
