
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes that fundraising activities are used by the school system and individual schools, as well as school-sponsored organizations to support school-related endeavors. The Board approves of fundraising by these groups as long as the proceeds of these activities contribute to the educational experience of students and that the conduct of these activities does not conflict with or disrupt the operation of the instructional program.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide a framework for fundraising activities within the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The provisions of this policy apply to fundraising activities held by the school system, individual schools, and school-sponsored organizations.



Fundraising activities, as defined, are separate activities from donations with the purpose being to generate money for the school, school-sponsored organization, or charitable cause that may include the exchange of services or goods.



All items purchased using fundraising proceeds become the property of the Howard County Board of Education and must conform to appropriate standards, specifications, and guidelines for use.



Revenue generated by fundraising activities may not be used to reinstate programs, services, or personnel that were cut as a result of budget deliberations. Any exceptions require the approval of the Board of Education.



Approval




Any fundraising activity must be approved by the local committee before being scheduled, advertised or conducted, as follows:




Fundraising activities sponsored by the school system that benefit the system or a charitable cause must be approved by the Superintendent/designee.



Fundraising activities sponsored by a school or school-sponsored organization that benefit an individual school or a charitable cause must be approved by the school-based administrator with the advice of the school’s local committee.




V. Responsibilities





Compliance with applicable provisions of this policy is a condition of the continuation of any individual fundraising activity, as well as the approval of subsequent fundraising activities.



The school-based administrator will determine the size and composition of the local committee, which will review fundraising applications and make recommendations regarding approval.



Funds raised will be handled in accordance with
Policy 4030 School Activity Funds
.



The Superintendent/designee will prepare an annual financial report for Policy 4020 Fundraising by Schools and School-Sponsored Organizations. This report will contain by school and/or department a summary for fundraising.




VI. Delegation of Authority





The Superintendent is authorized to develop all necessary and appropriate procedures to implement and monitor compliance with this policy.



Each school principal is the fiduciary agent for his/her school and is therefore responsible for all funds raised under the provisions of this policy by the school or its school-sponsored organizations.




VII. References



A. Legal


None


VIII. History



ADOPTED - March 14, 1991
