
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes its responsibilities to provide services for children with disabilities and to pursue funds available from federal sources for this purpose. Accordingly, the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) actively seeks reimbursement from the Maryland Medical Assistance Program (Medicaid) for health-related services provided to Medicaid eligible children with disabilities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to authorize conditions under which the HCPSS may seek reimbursement for health-related services provided to Medicaid eligible children with disabilities.


III. Standards





Reimbursement to the HCPSS under the Medicaid Program requires that children, service providers, and the HCPSS are eligible.




To be eligible, a child must be:




Enrolled in Medicaid



Receiving eligible health-related services as required by an Individualized Family Service Plan (IFSP) or an Individualized Education Program (IEP).




IV. Responsibilities



The HCPSS Department of Special Education is assigned the overall responsibility for implementing, directing, and maintaining the third party billing process to seek Medicaid reimbursement for health-related services.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) 2004, 20 U.S.C. §§1400 et seq.



Public Law 100-360 (Medicare Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988), Section 411



COMAR 10.09.36, General Medical Assistance Provider Participation Criteria



COMAR 10.09.50, EPSDT School Health-Related or Health-Related Early Intervention Services



COMAR 10.09.56, Home and Community-based Services Waiver for Children with Autism Spectrum Disorder



COMAR 13A.05.02.13, Administration of Services for Students with Disabilities 2004




VIII. History



ADOPTED:  March 9, 1995
