
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes the relationship between student health and student academic achievement. Optimal health and safety is the shared responsibility of the individual, the family, and the school system. The Board affirms its intention to provide, with the assistance of the Howard County Health Department (HCHD), health services in compliance with statutory and regulatory mandates for students with the primary goal of supporting students’ participation in the educational process.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the provision of health care in the Howard County Public School System(HCPSS) as outlined under existing federal, state, and local laws and regulations as well as school system policies.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The school health services program will support student participation in the educational process through prevention, identification, early intervention, and remediation of specific health problems. School health services will be provided for all students within the educational setting in accordance with COMAR. These services include, but are not limited to, the following:




A health record will be created for each enrolled student. Health records will be reviewed and maintained in accordance with state requirements.



A health appraisal for each student identified through the review of records as having health problems or concerns will be conducted in accordance with state requirements. Health services will be provided in accordance with the appraisal.



Health screenings of students will be carried out in accordance with state mandated requirements, including screenings for immunization, physical examination, lead, and health care provider.



Communicable disease prevention and control in the school setting will be provided jointly by the HCHD and the HCPSS.



Written procedures for emergency care management will be jointly developed by the HCPSS and HCHD and implemented by the HCPSS.



Maryland Medical Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) will be implemented for students as ordered in compliance with Maryland State Health Services Guidelines.



Issues of parental consent and confidentiality will be addressed in accordance with state regulations and Policy 9050 Student Records.



Each school will maintain a separate health suite in compliance with state requirements.




V. Responsibilities





The health services coordinator/designee will supervise and evaluate professional registered nurses.



The health services coordinator will develop and implement periodic audits of the Health Services Requirements and Procedures Manual as deemed appropriate.



The health services coordinator will ensure that appropriate professional development is provided to health assistants and nurses.



School-based administrators will provide written input into the annual evaluation of nurses and health assistants assigned to their schools.



Nurses will supervise and formally evaluate health assistants.



Nurses will ensure compliance with health services procedures and state mandated services in the schools to which they are assigned.



The Superintendent will appoint a Health Services Office representative to the HCSHC.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




The Regulations of the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; Title 34 C.F.R., Public Welfare, Part 99 (Privacy Rights of Parents and Students)



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. §§1400 et seq.



Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973



The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-401 to §7-403.1, §7-411, §7-426.5



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Health Occupations Article, Title 8, Nurse Practice Act



COMAR 10.27.09



COMAR 10.27.11.03



COMAR 13A.05.05–15, School Health Standards



COMAR 13A.08.02, Individual Student Records



Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA)


