
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the ongoing need to procure professional architectural and construction management services required to implement the school construction program. The design and construction of school facilities is increasingly complex and requires professional knowledge to implement the various aspects of the work. The demand for flexibility, response to technological change, and cost containment require professional services that reflect a high level of ability and experience.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the procurement of architectural and construction management services needed for the school construction program.


III. Definitions





Architect Firm – A designation usually reserved by law for a person or organization professionally qualified and duly licensed to perform architectural services, including, but not necessarily limited to, analysis of project requirements; creation and development of the project design; preparation of drawings, specifications, and bidding requirements; and general administration of the construction contract.



Capital Improvement Project – Any physical betterment or improvement and any preliminary studies and surveys relative thereto, including, but not limited to, any property of a permanent nature, and equipment needed in connection with such improvement when first erected or acquired.



Construction Manager (CM) – A person or organization hired to participate in the preconstruction phase of a project to provide cost estimating, project schedules, constructability reviews, and value engineering services, as well as coordinate and manage the overall project schedule and the construction phases of a project with the objective of minimizing project construction time and cost while maintaining the quality, function, and aesthetics of the building.



Pool – Architect and CM firms that have been pre-approved to perform services for a period of three years with two possible one year extensions.




IV. Standards





This policy and associated implementation procedures apply to the capital improvement projects that are listed as part of the Board’s annual approved capital budget requiring contracts and consultant agreements.



The architectural and construction management selection process must:




Ensure a consistently high level of professional expertise in the design and management of public school capital projects.



Be open to all competent and experienced architectural and construction management firms in the region.



Obtain such services at a cost that reflects the size and level of project complexity and is comparable to fees for similar projects.




V. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will recommend qualified firms to the Board for approval.


VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References





Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 5-302




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 28, 1975
