
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education is committed to quality educational opportunities for all Howard County students. Significant reductions in enrollment or other factors may make it difficult to maintain the staffing necessary to provide high quality educational programs at a reasonable cost. In those events the Board may decide that it is in the best interests of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) to consider permanently discontinuing the use of some schools and consolidating student populations in order to promote more uniform and efficient use of school facilities and resources.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to direct the process of discontinuing school use when there is no plan to replace the school with another facility.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The Board recognizes the value of the school community’s consideration of and participation in the decisions to discontinue school use and encourages comments from citizens and groups.



The procedure for developing a recommendation to discontinue use of a school  will include consideration of factors relating to demographic trends, budgetary needs, and operational needs, as well as impact on the community.



The process of discontinuing school use consists of the following:




Evaluate all factors that are associated with the facility in the context of the overall school system



Convene an ad hoc advisory committee of affected stakeholders to review the factors and to provide input



Consult with county and state agencies regarding processes



Present a report to the Board



Hold a public hearing with public testimony



Hold a meeting at which the Board makes a legislative decision to discontinue school use of a facility.



The decision will be recorded in writing and will include a rationale based upon the factors which are established in policy and are consistent with best practices and state law.




In reaching its decision on the closing of one or more schools, the Board will consider:




Staff recommendations presented by the Superintendent



Testimony and comments from the affected communities



Testimony and comments from the public at large.




V. Compliance





The Superintendent is responsible for recommending discontinuation of school use to the Board.



The Superintendent will make recommendations for future use of discontinued facilities.



The Superintendent/Designee is responsible for directing staff on all matters relating to discontinuation of school use.



The Board is responsible for approving or denying discontinuation of school use.



The Board reserves the right to adopt or to modify any school closing alternatives or recommendations presented to it.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References





Legal:




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-108. Establishment of Public Schools Title 13–A, State Board of Education; Subtitle 02, Local School Administration; Chapter 09, Closing of Schools



Howard County Code, Title 04, Contracts, Purchasing and Property; Subtitle 02, Real property; Section 4.202, Acceptance and Disposition of Surplus School Property and Section 4.203, Exchange of Real Property for Educational Purposes.




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 8, 1982
