
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) believes that environmental, economic, and social sustainability within the school system is the responsibility of all individuals as well as the collective organization. Therefore, the Board supports sustainable practices that create a healthy environment, engage our employees and students in developing environmental literacy, and strengthen our operations.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the HCPSS is an environmentally, economically, and socially sustainable organization.


III. Standards





HPCSS employees will model conservation and sustainable practices in their operations.



Sustainability will be an integral part of ongoing improvement efforts for HCPSS schools and facilities.



HPCSS employees and students are encouraged to participate in sustainable practices.



Instructional programs will include sustainable practices and environmental literacy.



Sustainability efforts will be encouraged and enhanced through community partnerships and initiatives.



HCPSS business and strategic planning decisions will consider the Triple Bottom Line.



All procurement decisions that require Board approval will include a specification review of environmental impact.



HCPSS will monitor and report the following energy data in accordance with state and local regulations:




The amount of electricity used from renewable energy sources;



The percentage of HCPSS’s annual electricity use that is from renewable energy sources; and



HCPSS’s overall electricity use by source and square foot, including current and historical data on HCPSS’s energy use.




IV. Responsibilities





The Chief Operating Officer will review and ensure that a systematic approach to sustainability is taken across the school system.



The Chief Operating Officer will ensure compliance with green building practices in accordance with state and local regulations, and will review national best practices as applicable.



The Chief Operating Officer will ensure that all procurement decisions that require Board approval include a specification review of the environmental impact.



The Department of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment will encourage activities and instructional programs that promote sustainable practices and environmental literacy.



HCPSS employees will strive to support sustainable practices and a culture of environmental stewardship.



The Superintendent/designee will review this policy at least every three years and recommend it for revision as necessary.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that Policy 6080 Sustainability is posted to the HCPSS website.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is directed to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Education Article, Annotated Code of Maryland, Sections 5-112, 5-312.1



Maryland State COMAR Regulation 13A.03.02




VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 17, 2013
