
I. Policy Value Statement



The appointment of personnel to certificated administrator and supervisor positions is essential to the effective operation of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide direction for the appointment of certificated administrators and supervisors.


III. Standards





The Superintendent will recommend in writing to the Howard County Board of Education (Board) the approval of all appointments and promotions to certificated positions, in accordance with Maryland law.



The Superintendent has the authority to assign and reassign certificated administrators and supervisors, in accordance with Maryland law.



Vacancies for principals, assistant principals, and Athletics and Activities Managers (AAMs) will be advertised as a classification and not on an individual school basis so that a candidate may be given consideration for any of the vacancies that may exist.



Supervisor positions will be advertised as individual vacancies are approved to fill.



Announcements of vacancies will comply with current negotiated master agreements when applicable.



Consistent procedures for accepting, screening, and selecting candidates who are the most qualified to meet the needs of the school system will be developed and followed. When selecting internal candidates, this will include a review of pertinent records for violations of Board policies related to bullying, harassment, discrimination, and sexual harassment.



The needs of individual schools will be considered when making administrator appointments.




IV. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the provisions of this policy are followed.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth in this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-103



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 6-201



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 6-501




VIII. History



ADOPTED:  September 28, 1976
