
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County believes that a comprehensive and well-rounded program of education-based student extracurricular activities will be made available to high school students in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). To provide high quality instruction and supervision during these activities, the Board also believes it is essential that the advisors and interscholastic athletic coaches of these activities have appropriate qualifications and training for their responsibilities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish criteria for the employment of both interscholastic athletic coaches and advisors of high school extracurricular activities that are Board-sanctioned and for which coaches or advisors receive stipends.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





This policy covers Board-sanctioned extracurricular activities for which coaches or advisors receive stipends.



All coaches and advisors will be teachers or other certificated employees of the HCPSS, provided they are qualified and acceptable.



If a qualified and acceptable certificated coach/advisor is not available, high schools may employ either a credentialed coach or an emergency coach/advisor.



If a qualified and acceptable certificated coach is not available, high schools may employ a credentialed coach if the individual:




Possesses MPSSAA/MSDE Coaches Certification for coaches.



Has two years of successful coaching as an emergency coach in the HCPSS.



Has spent the third year as a successful emergency coach at the school of hire in the position of hire.



Is eligible to hold a Maryland teaching certificate.




V. Responsibilities





The Coordinator of Athletics will:




Ensure all new coaches attend new coach orientation.



Have final approval of all coaches.



Ensure that coaches have completed a course in the care and prevention of athletic injuries.



Ensure that coaches have completed a session on bloodborne pathogens.



Ensure that new coaches have completed a CPR/AED course.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is directed to develop and implement regulations and procedures for selecting and assigning interscholastic athletic coaches and advisors.


VII. References



A. Legal


Title IX of Public Law (Pub. L. 92-318, Title IX, June 23, 1972)
The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Title 7, Subtitle 4B, The Fitnessand Athletic Equity for Students with Disabilities Act of 2008
COMAR 13A.06.03, Interscholastic Athletics in the State
Maryland House Bill 486 Education-Personnel Matters-Child Sexual Abuse and Sexual Misconduct Prevention


VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 9, 1992
