
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to providing a safe, engaging, productive, and supportive work environment that values diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Board is also committed to fostering a climate where individuals are valued, and their safety and rights are protected. Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) school property should be places where individuals are treated with kindness and empathy, while building a relationship-focused, welcoming, supportive environment fostering academic and personal growth for all.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish expectations for maintaining a safe and respectful workplace in the HCPSS where employee bullying and harassment on school property or at school-related activities, are not tolerated. This policy also provides standards for supporting HCPSS employees who are targets of employee bullying or harassment and for identifying and preventing bullying and harassment.


III. Standards





The HCPSS will work to ensure that HCPSS workplace environments are free from incidents of employee bullying and harassment.



The display of symbols, images, language, materials, or items that demean an identifiable person or group or are reasonably perceived as promoting hatred, such as but not limited to, swastikas and confederate flag symbols, are prohibited on school property or at school-related activities and are subject to the standards of this policy.



All HCPSS workplaces will follow established procedures for employee bullying and harassment prevention, intervention, and provision of supports as outlined in the implementation procedures.



HCPSS employees, and other individuals engaging in employee bullying or harassment may be subject to disciplinary and/or legal action.



Retaliation against anyone who has reported employee bullying or harassment is prohibited and may be subject to disciplinary and/or legal action.



In an effort to maintain a positive workplace climate, consequences for violations of this policy will be administered in accordance with Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline and all applicable state and federal laws. Prior violations of this policy will be considered when determining consequences.



HCPSS employees who believe they have experienced or witnessed employee bullying or harassment will utilize the Bullying, Harassment and Intimidation Reporting Form For Use by Employees.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure appropriate disciplinary action is taken against HCPSS employees who bully or harass in accordance with this policy.



School administrators, supervisors, or the Compliance and Investigations Officer will take immediate action to protect targeted individuals regardless of how the alleged bullying is reported.



School administrators/supervisors will provide annual written notice of the general provisions of this policy.



School administrators, supervisors, or the Compliance and Investigations Officer will investigate and address all reported incidents of employee bullying and harassment in accordance with this policy and applicable laws.



School administrators, supervisors, or the Director of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being/designee will provide appropriate assistance to HCPSS employees who have been affected by behavior prohibited in this policy. Examples include but are not limited to the opportunity to talk with an administrator, mediation, Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and referrals to community supports.



HCPSS employees will maintain a safe and supportive work environment.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Title IX of the Educational Amendments Act of 1972



COMAR 13A.01.04.03 – School Safety



COMAR 13A.08.01.15 – Reporting Delinquent Acts




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 8, 2023
