
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes that the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) curriculum provides the foundation of the district’s educational program and ensures that students, regardless of the schools they attend, receive a dynamic and educational program that nurtures their cognitive, social and emotional well-being and affirms their identity and experience in order to maximize each student’s individual potential. Instruction is based on the same curriculum standards and students are expected to achieve consistently at high levels of performance commensurate with local, state, national, and international peers. The Board further recognizes the need and value of a systemic ongoing program of curriculum review and development. The Board supports individualization and enrichment to ensure that all students meet or exceed these achievement standards in order to reach their individual potential.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide a process to manage the curriculum by establishing the structure for curriculum design and implementation and a systematic basis for decision-making and standardized practice.


III. Standards





General


The Board expects that a well-designed curriculum:


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will develop, implement, and monitor a process for the development and review of the school system’s curriculum and assessment programs that complies with state and local requirements.



The Superintendent/designee will provide the curriculum standards online and will communicate with families to provide directions to access the standards and family resources.



The Superintendent/designee will provide HCPSS employees with access to all curriculum resources developed by HCPSS. In addition, identified HCPSS employees will be provided with access, in accordance with purchasing agreements/licenses, to those resources purchased by HCPSS.



HCPSS school-based employees and administrators will ensure implementation of the written curriculum in the classroom.



School-based administrators will monitor the implementation of the written curriculum in the classroom.



The Superintendent/designee will provide to the Board a summary of annual curriculum and assessment development activities for the Board’s approval, including the addition and deletion of high school courses each fall.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, these definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-111



COMAR 13A.04




VIII. History



ADOPTED: February 12, 2004
