
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education supports the use of a variety of instructional strategies to ensure student attainment of educational goals. To that end, the Board supports the use of resource speakers, who provide timely, authentic, firsthand information to supplement and enrich the instructional program.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish a framework for identifying and selecting resource speakers.


III. Definitions





Controversial Issue – a point or matter about which there exist significant opposing viewpoints and/or multiple perspectives.



Curriculum – the prescribed elements of programs and courses which state clearly and specifically what students are to know and be able to do, how well they will be able to do it, how they will meet the learning objectives and by what means they will be assessed.




IV. Standards





Resource speakers may be invited to speak to students and/or parents and community members to supplement the educational program or as part of a school-sponsored event or activity.



Resource speakers who are invited to address a controversial issue must do so in compliance with
Policy 8050 Teaching of Controversial Issues
.



All speeches, presentations, or consultations provided by resource speakers must be related to the particular occasion or event being observed, or to the curriculum, although not necessarily to topics currently being studied.



All curricular activities, including programs involving resource speakers must be planned with consideration for the following:




Specific educational goals



The maturity level of students



The health, welfare, and safety of all persons within the school




V. Compliance





The school principal is responsible for approving staff requests to invite resource speakers to participate in classroom or school-sponsored activities or events.



Department of Education staff, particularly those with curricular duties, is responsible for providing assistance and advice to school principals and school-based staffs with regard to the identification and selection of resource speakers.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal


VIII. History



ADOPTED: August 4, 1970
