
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes the benefit to students of participating in activities beyond the school day that reinforce skills, provide valuable learning experiences, and serve as incentives for improvement, specifically the non-school-hour programs that implement the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) curriculum.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish appropriate guidelines for student participation in curricular activities during non-school hours.


III. Standards





Required non-school-hour curricular activities are those activities identified as course requirements.



Participation in required non-school-hour curricular activities will be reflected within the student’s total grade in accordance with Policy 8010 Grading and Reporting: PreKindergarten Through Grade 5 and Policy 8020 Grading and Reporting: Middle and High School.



No grade penalty will be assessed for excused absences from required non-school-hour curricular activities (see Policy 8010 Grading and Reporting: PreKindergarten Through Grade 5 and Policy 8020 Grading and Reporting: Middle and High School).



Absence from a required non-school-hour curricular activity, excused or not, may result in the student’s exclusion from a scheduled performance or event for which the missed activity was considered essential preparation.



Violation of the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct may result in a student’s exclusion from a scheduled performance or event.



Students will not be required to pay a fee to participate in a required non-school-hour curricular activity.



Students who do not participate in voluntary non-school-hour curricular activities will not be penalized.



If the non-school hour curricular activity involves a field trip, the trip will adhere to Policy 8100 Field Trips.



All Board policies remain in effect for non-school-hour curricular activities taking place on school property or at an off-site location.



Curricular activity leaders, in collaboration with school-based administrators, have the ability to make provisions to meet student needs.




IV. Responsibilities





Curriculum coordinators will identify those required non-school-hour curricular activities integral to each program or course.



Curriculum coordinators will determine the maximum number of required non-school-hour curricular activities in which students will participate to meet program requirements.



The principal/designee will approve any schedule of curricular activities during non-school hours.



Curricular activity leaders will provide participating students and their parents with information prior to or at the beginning of the course regarding all required curricular activities taking place during non-school hours.



Curricular activity leaders will consult with the school administrator/designee prior to excluding a student from a scheduled performance or an event.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-101(c) Informal Kinship Care



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, §5-507




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 24, 1981
