
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes the importance of administering state-mandated, district-selected, and district-designed assessments to the educational process. Assessment results combined with other data sources are used to measure the progress that students and schools are making toward achieving system-wide goals/objectives and to identify students at risk for not achieving learning outcomes. In addition, assessment results combined with other data are used to guide classroom instruction, curricular programs, and delivery of services, while also providing students, parents and the community with nationally and internationally benchmarked indicators of academic achievement.


II. Purpose



This policy establishes provisions for how state-mandated, district-selected, and district-designed assessments are approved, secured, administered, and reported in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


III. Standards





Approval of Assessments




Assessments administered to students in the system will be on the approved assessment list. Assessments are placed on the approved list according to the following guidelines:




State-mandated assessments are automatically placed on the approved assessment list.



District-selected and district-designed assessments will align with current HCPSS goals and objectives.




IV. Responsibilities





The Local Accountability Coordinator (LAC) will ensure the HCPSS adheres to protocols established by MSDE and the HCPSS for state-mandated, district-selected, and district-designed assessments.



The School Test Coordinator (STC) will follow all procedures established by MSDE and the HCPSS for the assessment program.



All HCPSS employees whose duties involve either assessment administration or data collection and reporting will be held accountable for compliance with all requirements of the MSDE, the HCPSS, and this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Title 7, Public Schools, Subtitle 2. Evaluation and Graduation of Students



COMAR 13A.03.02.06 Maryland High School Assessments



COMAR 13A.03.04 Test Administration and Data-Reporting Policies and Procedures



COMAR 13A.12.05 Suspensions and Revocations




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 12, 1992
