
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes the value of digital education throughout the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). The Board values the need for expanded access to learning options through supplemental and full-time digital education. Digital education provides the opportunity to access education that might otherwise not be available or provides an alternative academic option for the student.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to specify criteria for digital education courses in HCPSS which will provide students equitable access to instruction and content resources.


III. Standards





Digital Education




HCPSS will implement national, State, and local requirements and best practices when developing, designing, and reviewing digital education courses.



Digital education courses will be aligned with HCPSS academic standards.



Digital education courses will follow the HCPSS system calendar unless otherwise specified.



HCPSS digital education eligibility requirements and course availability will be made available through the HCPSS Catalog of Approved High School Courses.



HCPSS will use HCPSS employees who meet established criteria for digital education to teach digital education courses. When a qualified HCPSS employee is not available, the HCPSS may advertise for and establish a contract with an online learning provider to secure a non-HCPSS employed teacher.



Digital education students are subject to all HCPSS policies. Due to the unique nature of instruction, modifications to grading and reporting, attendance, and academic eligibility may be made and communicated prior to enrollment in accordance with Policy 8020 Grading and Reporting: Middle and High School, Policy 9010 Attendance, and Policy 9070 Academic Eligibility for High School Extracurricular Activities.



The Innovative Pathways Program Office will maintain and share the roster of HCPSS students concurrently enrolled with schools.



The Innovative Pathways Program Office will provide program data on the status of digital education as requested.




IV. Responsibilities





HCPSS will establish criteria for course instruction for digital education courses.



HCPSS will assist digital education students to access the required hardware, software, and internet connectivity that are available to other HCPSS students.



The Superintendent/designee will use program data to plan future course offerings and course delivery models available to HCPSS students, consistent with the standards outlined in Policy 8000 Curriculum.



The Superintendent/designee will publish eligibility requirements and digital education course availability annually.



The Superintendent/designee will communicate information annually regarding digital education courses to all students, parents, and HCPSS employees.



The Superintendent/designee will provide program data on the status of digital education to the Board and the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE).




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §6-121(a)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-14A-01-§7-14A-09



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-103.2



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-901, et seq.



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-1002



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-1401-§7-1408



COMAR 13A.04.15




VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 12, 2017
