
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to establishing a system of public schools that educates the students of Howard County and promotes the general welfare of Howard County residents. The Board recognizes the need to regulate and manage student eligibility, residency, enrollment, and assignment in prekindergarten through grade 12.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish procedures for determining eligibility to attend school in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS), for admitting/enrolling students in schools, and for reassigning students.


III. Standards





Any decision made under this policy may be rescinded or altered if found to have been issued based on substantive information that was erroneous or false.



In order to enroll in the HCPSS, students and/or parents will meet all legal standards related to age, immunization, authority to make educational decisions, and residency.




Exceptions are made for homeless students (see Policy 9300 Homeless Children and Youth).



A student’s or family’s citizenship or immigration status has no impact on their enrollment eligibility.




IV. Responsibilities





The Board will establish tuition rates annually.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that procedures related to enrollment and school assignment are published annually to HCPSS employees, parents, and the community.



The Finance Office will bill responsible parties and collect tuition payments.



Pupil Personnel Workers and the School Security Office will investigate the residency or custody status of students seeking to meet enrollment requirements, determining whether circumstances exist which constitute hardship where appropriate, investigate reports of suspected fraudulent residency or custody, and reporting findings to school-based and Central Office employees for appropriate action.



School-based employees and Pupil Personnel Workers will ensure that students assigned to their school are properly enrolled.



Parents or emancipated students are responsible for providing documentation required for enrollment in the HCPSS.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §1400, et. seq.



Plyler v. Doe, 457 U.S. 202 (1982)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-109(c)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Sections 4-122 and 4-122.1



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-205(c)(3)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-101



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-301



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-305



COMAR 13A.05.09, Programs for Homeless Children



COMAR 13A.06.02, Prekindergarten Programs



COMAR 13A.08.01.02, Age of School Attendance



COMAR 13A.08.01.11C.(8), Disciplinary Action



COMAR 13A.08.05, Informal Kinship Care



McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, Title VII, Subtitle B




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 24, 1980
