
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to providing a safe and nurturing school environment. The presence of weapons on school property or at any school-sponsored activity threatens this commitment. Therefore, the possession or use of any type of weapon on school property or at school-sponsored activities is strictly forbidden, except as provided herein.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters for ensuring a safe and nurturing school environment for students and staff by prohibiting the possession and use of weapons on school property and at school-sponsored activities and to provide clear consequences for anyone who violates this policy.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Notification that weapons are prohibited on school property, on a school bus, in a vehicle located on school property, and at school-sponsored activities will be communicated to all students, staff, parents, volunteers, and service providers annually, to any new student upon enrollment, and when deemed necessary by the principal.



It is a violation of this policy for any person to carry or possess any weapon on school property, on a school bus, in a vehicle located on school property, or at school-sponsored activities other than a law enforcement agent in the regular course of the agent’s duty or an armored car service hired by the Board and expressly authorized in writing by the Superintendent.



A student who possesses a firearm on the school property, on a school bus, in a vehicle located on school property, or at a school-sponsored activity will be expelled from the Howard County Public School System for a minimum of one year. The Superintendent may, on a case-by-case basis, and under certain circumstances, specify a shorter period of expulsion or an alternate educational setting for a student who has brought a firearm onto school property.



Unless used to threaten or harm another, the following are not considered weapons:




Tools and materials used by employees in their normal duties.



Any antique firearm rendered permanently inoperable.



Permanently inoperable rifles used by JROTC cadets during instructional time and at other times when under the direct supervision of JROTC instructors.




V. Responsibilities





The school-based administrator/designee will annually notify all students, staff, parents, volunteers, and service providers of the standards included in this policy.



The school-based administrator/designee will determine if a person is in possession of a weapon and take appropriate action.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




18 U.S.C. §921



Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, §4-102



Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, §5-507



Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-101(c) (Informal Kinship Care)



Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-305(F)



COMAR 13A.08.01.11



COMAR 13A.08.01.12.1




VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 25, 1990
