
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to providing a safe and supportive learning environment, free from dangerous or illegal items and those items that constitute a violation of Board policy. In order to ensure safety and security practices consistently across the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS), the Board authorizes statutorily designated employees to conduct reasonable searches of a student and of the student’s possessions on school property or during any school-sponsored activity in accordance with Maryland law and this policy. The Board expects that every effort is made to conduct searches and seizures of a student’s possessions in a manner which will minimize disruption to the normal school routine, minimize embarrassment to students affected, and respect students’ rights.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines related to the school system’s authority to safely conduct searches of a student and the student’s possessions, and to provide uniform procedures for the administration of such searches.


III. Standards





The authority of Authorized Searchers to search a student or a student’s possessions applies to all students when on school property or at school-related activities for the purpose of preserving order and safety in the schools.



Authorized Searchers will conduct the search in accordance with the constitutional, statutory, and other legal rights of the student.



An Authorized Searcher must have reasonable belief in order to search a student.



The search of a student must be reasonable both at its inception and in its scope.




The reasonableness of a search depends upon the degree of certainty that a student has violated an HCPSS policy or the law and the extent to which the student’s expectation of privacy will be infringed by the search. Factors to be considered in determining the reasonableness of a search include:




Seriousness of the problem necessitating the search;



Need to make the search without delay;



Probative value and reliability of the information used to justify the search; and



Type of search to be conducted.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will facilitate training for all school administrators annually, within the first 60 school days, on the provisions and implementation of this policy, which includes cell phone searches.



School administrators will ensure that employees review this policy annually.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that students and parents are provided annual notice of the authority of Authorized Searchers to search students.



Authorized Searchers may search a student if the Authorized Searcher has reasonable belief that the student has in the student’s possessions an item, the possession or use of which is a criminal offense under the laws of Maryland, or a violation of any other state law or any policy or regulation of the HCPSS.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




U.S. Constitution, Fourth Amendment, Search and Seizure



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-308 (Searches of Students and Schools)



COMAR 13A.08.01.14, Searches




B. Board Policies





Policy 1040 Safe and Supportive Schools



Policy 1050 Alcohol, Drug, and Tobacco Free Environment



Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline



Policy 8080 Responsible Use of Technology, Digital Tools, and Social Media



Policy 8100 Field Trips



Policy 9020 Students’ Rights and Responsibilities



Policy 9200 Student Discipline



Policy 9250 Weapons




VIII. History



ADOPTED: May 11, 2006
