
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to maintaining a safe and secure learning environment for all students. The Board is further committed to providing an education to students who are registered juvenile or adult sex offenders as required by §11-704.1 of the Criminal Procedure Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish and communicate to students, parents, and HCPSS employees the procedures and guidelines for responding when students are registered juvenile or adult sex offenders.


III. Standards





Communication Regarding the Provision of Educational Services




Immediately upon becoming aware of a student who is a sex juvenile or adult offender registrant, the Superintendent/designee and the school-based administrator will arrange a meeting with the student and parent, to advise them of the manner in which the student will be educated in accordance with State law, until such time that the student is no longer a juvenile or adult sex offender registrant.




It will be made clear that the student continues to be an enrolled student (not withdrawn or expelled) and entitled to receive an education in accordance with State law but is not allowed to enter the property of any public or nonpublic elementary or secondary school without express written consent to access the grounds pursuant to an educational placement decision.



The Superintendent/designee will be the primary contact person within the HCPSS who will make initial contact with the family and facilitate all future communications.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure the policy is published in the school system’s student handbook.



School-based administrators will review this policy with HCPSS employees annually.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set for by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §11-704-1



Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Procedure Article, §11-722



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §1400 et seq.



Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §794 et seq.



COMAR 13A.03.05 et seq.



Title 1 of the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006




VIII. History



ADOPTED: February 9, 2023
