
I. Announcement/Dissemination/Training





Notification regarding the provisions of Policy 1020 and these procedures will be provided on a regular basis to all students, families, and employees. Principals are responsible for notifying all students, families, and employees in their schools. Supervisors are responsible for notifying those under their supervision. Notification may be through these customary channels:




Announced in schools over the public address system at the beginning of the school year and at other times deemed appropriate



Published in school and system newsletters and/or handbooks



Posted in commonly used areas



Posted on school and system websites



Reviewed with students by classroom teachers or other appropriate employees



Provided to new students and parents through the registration process.




II. Reporting Violations of Policy





General




Employees who receive a complaint of sexual misconduct against a student should immediately consider whether the issue may constitute child abuse. If so, Policy 1030 Child Abuse and Neglect, must be followed, including all reporting requirements.



Reports to the Title IX Coordinator should be directed to:




Title IX Coordinator
10910 Clarksville Pike
Ellicott City, MD 21042
410.313.6600


III. Resolution of Complaints



When violations have occurred, school system employees in supervisory or management positions are responsible for taking steps designed to end any existing sexual misconduct by those under their supervision, prevent any recurrence, and remedy any detrimental effects on the complainant and others. Remedies available to complainants include, but are not limited to, counseling, imposition of an order against the guilty party prohibiting further contact with the complainant or others, reinstatement of employment to the complainant, reconsideration of an award of a contract with the school system or any other remedy as is just and serves the interest of reinstating the complainant to his/her/their position prior to the misconduct.


IV. Monitoring



Policy 1020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Human Resources and Professional Development.


V. History



ADOPTED: May 28, 1992
