
I. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


II. Student Protections





The Superintendent/Designee will communicate to all employees and third parties high expectations for the physical safety, emotional safety, and academic success of all students including foreign-born students and students perceived to be foreign-born.



The Superintendent/Designee will establish procedures to ensure that all employees respond quickly and appropriately when employees are aware of students impacted by immigration enforcement related issues.



Existing policies and procedures in the HCPSS Policy 1000 Series: Foundations and Basic Commitments category related to protecting the safety of all students will be followed to provide safety and protection for foreign-born students and students perceived to be foreign-born.




III. Information Collection and Record Keeping





Any request from any agency seeking information about foreign-born students and their families should be referred to the principal or their designee.



HCPSS employees will not request any information regarding immigration status/social security numbers for participation in any school system activity.




The Superintendent/Designee will maintain school enrollment/registration procedures that do not require immigration status information, including social security numbers.



The principal/designee will ensure that participation in school activities does not require the reporting of immigration status unless the activity is a field trip and the immigration status is required by the field trip location.



To allow families an opportunity to make informed decisions, the principal/designee will provide all families with adequate information about the criteria for participating in field trips that require immigration status reporting. Should families choose to decline participating, the principal/designee will not require them to give a reason for doing so and will ensure that declining the activity will not impact the student’s grade.



The principal/designee will communicate information about school activities and immigration status expectations with Activities and Athletics Managers, classroom teachers, and other school-based employees, as appropriate.




IV. Family and Community Resources





The Superintendent/Designee will annually update a resource webpage on the HCPSS website to provide school-based and community resource information available for foreign-born students and families.




Translations of documents and information about interpreting services will be available on the webpage.



School websites will be linked to the HCPSS resource webpage.




V. Communication and Dissemination





The Superintendent/Designee will communicate clear protocols to identify how HCPSS employees and third parties should interact with law enforcement including federal immigration authorities, on any property owned or leased by the HCPSS and during school system activities.



The Superintendent/Designee will communicate to the community through various avenues, the development of this policy and the safeguards in place to ensure the handling of privileged information regarding all students, including foreign-born students and students perceived to be foreign-born.



The Superintendent/Designee will provide translations of this policy in languages which represent the HCPSS community.



All communications to the community, students, and HCPSS employees regarding this policy, will be articulated in a manner that does not create anxiety or fear among stakeholders.




VI. Professional Development





The principal/designee will provide professional development with the goal of increasing employee understanding of the diverse experiences and backgrounds of foreign-born students, the legal rights of foreign-born students as well as those perceived to be foreign-born, and an awareness of the resources available to support them.



The Superintendent/Designee will include Policy 1070 in the professional development required for all volunteers.



The Superintendent/Designee will provide annual professional development for employees and coaches on bullying, the responsibilities for bullying reporting, and implicit/explicit bias, including bias based on background and perceived immigration status.



HCPSS student services employees, international liaisons, and/or school points of contact will receive training on the following:




Resources and legal protections available for foreign-born students



How to respond to requests by federal immigration agents (See Implementation Procedures Appendix)



Understanding the confidentiality needs of students



Available counseling services, and



The potential psychosocial impact on students and families affected by immigration enforcement actions.




VII. Violations of this Policy



Consequences related to violations of this policy and procedures will be administered using the appropriate HCPSS policy and implementation procedures including but not limited to those described in HCPSS Policy 1000 Series: Foundations and Basic Commitments.


VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 2, 2018
