
I. Dissemination of Information





Notification of the provisions of this policy and these implementation procedures will be given annually, and as otherwise required, to all students, families, Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees, and service providers. Methods may include:




Publications in school and HCPSS newsletters, handbooks, and other documents.



Notifications posted in areas that provide access to technology (e.g., media center, computer lab, classrooms, and staff workroom).



Notifications posted on school and HCPSS websites, including but not limited to, the learning management system and the staff communication tool.



Ongoing notification/reviews for students by classroom teachers, media specialists, or other appropriate HCPSS employees.



Inclusion, whenever possible and appropriate, into the process of accessing digital tools and/or files.



Periodic announcements in schools over the public address system at the beginning of the school year and at other times as appropriate.




II. General Procedures





Electronic Communications




Individuals will have no expectation of personal privacy or confidentiality of any electronic communication when using HCPSS technology.



HCPSS technologies that store or transmit HCPSS employee data, student record data, financial data, or other legally confidential data will implement appropriate authentication and encryption technologies to prevent unauthorized access or modification.



Individuals using HCPSS technology will ensure that both their usage and electronic communications content are in compliance with all other HCPSS policies.




III. HCPSS Technology Equipment Accountability





Physical inventory of Information HCPSS Technology equipment will be performed.



Principals/supervisors will ensure that HCPSS Technology equipment inventory will be completed on an annual basis.




IV. Violation of Policy





Any individual who suspects a violation of this policy or these implementation procedures will report the alleged violation to an appropriate administrator or supervisor for investigation.



The administrator or supervisor will report the suspected violation to the Superintendent/designee for further investigation and potential disciplinary action.



In cases that may be criminal in nature (threats, stalking, harassment, etc.) or that may pose a safety threat, an investigation will be conducted in consultation and cooperation with the Superintendent/designee.



In cases of probable or potential harm to an individual, appropriate follow-through and communication with the individual in danger and others who are in a position to protect that individual from harm including, but not limited to law enforcement, if necessary, must be undertaken by the individual who discovers the probable or potential harm.



Suspicious activity can be reported anonymously through the HCPSS main website - Reporting Fraud and Abuse. Reports can also be emailed directly to
abuse@hcpss.org
.




V. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


VI. Monitoring



Policy 3040 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Administration.


VII. History



ADOPTED:  March 11, 2010
