
I. General Provisions





All records are the property of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).



HCPSS members and school system officials are responsible for records in their custody.



The HCPSS Department of Strategy and Data Privacy will work with school system officials to create and maintain file plans for their office, department, or school.



HCPSS will structure its records management program around the lifecycle of information which encompasses the creation, maintenance, use, storage, and final disposition of a record.



HCPSS offices, departments, and schools will identify and protect HCPSS vital records.



HCPSS offices, departments, and schools will notify the Department of Strategy and Data Privacy of any upcoming office/department relocations, to start the planning process to transfer, relocate, and determine the disposition of records well ahead of time.



Transitory records will:




Be retained for only as long as they are actively used or referred to;



Be destroyed once they are determined to be inactive; and



Not be maintained as the substitute for the official record.




II. Employing the Records and Information Disposition Schedules (RIDS)





HCPSS Board members and school system officials will comply with the RIDS as their systemwide tool to identify and manage records created and maintained by the HCPSS.



HCPSS Board members and school system officials will match records in their offices, departments, and schools with the RIDS, to:




Determine which records are temporary or permanent;



Follow record retention requirements;



Follow record cutoff guidance; and



Review applicable State and federal citations.




III. Managing Records Disposition





To manage disposition, HCPSS school system officials will:




Preserve records of continuing value such as those reflecting HCPSS activities of historical interest;



Transfer inactive records to off-site storage for the remainder of their retention period; or



Destroy records of temporary value as soon as they have met their retention period.




IV. Managing the Protection of Records





Confidential records are:




Protected against release or distribution by State, federal, or controlling law/policy, and



Maintained in a manner that requires:




Protection of confidentiality;



Compliance with State, federal, or controlling law/policy and;



Compliance with HCPSS policies.




V. Creating and Maintaining HCPSS File Plans





The Department of Strategy and Data Privacy will work with HCPSS school system officials to create file plans for their offices, departments, or schools.



HCPSS file plans specify how records are to be organized once they have been created or received, and are a “roadmap” to the records created and maintained and dispositioned by the HCPSS. The HCPSS file plan file structure will:




Identify the person and the office that maintains the records;



Identify the records liaison officer and/or records custodian;



Identify the school system official who approved the file plan before it was put into effect;



Detail HCPSS file code;



Describe the title of each record, record description, and record arrangement;



Detail the medium of each record (electronic, paper, digital media);



Identify any restrictions of access;



Detail the status of the vital records;



Identify record location (all information including address of the storage facility and room number where they are kept);



Detail the dates of the records (all dates of the records, when were they retired, closed, destroyed, or transferred);



Detail disposition status (litigation hold, inactive, active);



Identify school system officials in charge of the file plan, and;



Identify the date the file plan was last revised.




VI. Managing Internal and External Records Requests





HCPSS will proactively disclose records that are frequently used and are in the general welfare of the public which do not require a request under the MPIA or other formal procedures. This may be done through:




The use of the school system’s public website which can be searched by topic or keyword and will contain information such as school system policies and student handbooks, organizational structures and contact information, school calendars, academic and student services overviews, budget overviews, and topical news announcements;



The use of the Board’s public website which can be searched by meeting date or subject matter and will contain information such as official meeting minutes as well as reports to the Board to inform and support decisions made under its authority; and



Online access to responses to requests made under the MPIA since FY2018 that are available for public inspection.




VII. HCPSS Records Management Training





HCPSS Board members and school system officials are required to complete annual records management training.



New HCPSS Board members and school system officials whose job responsibilities include working with HCPSS records, will be made aware of the general provisions of this policy and receive appropriate training related to the retention, management, and disposition of HCPSS records.




VIII. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


IX. Monitoring



Policy 3050 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Office of the Deputy Superintendent.


X. History



ADOPTED: October 4, 2011
