
I. Implementation Procedures Statement



The purpose of Policy 4050 Implementation Procedures is to provide clarity and instruction for procuring goods and/or services necessary to support the educational and auxiliary departments of the school system. Implementation procedures also ensure that the procurement function and processes follow best practices and that prudent procurement decisions made on behalf of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) are made with the utmost consideration for what is in the best interest of the HCPSS. It is the individual responsibility of each HCPSS employee involved in the procurement process to understand the policies upon which these procedures are based and the meaning and intent of the procedures themselves.


II. Procurement Manual



The Office of Purchasing will maintain an effective Procurement Manual to assist HCPSS employees in accordance with Policy 4050 and for the purposes of:


III. Method of Procurement





All procurements, regardless of the method used, will include the following basic elements:




Scope of work and/or specifications in sufficient detail



Date for delivery of goods or completion of services



Pricing format, if applicable



Approval and signature by authorized individuals



Identified source of proposed funding



Selection criteria




IV. Signing of Contracts





Contracts for amounts at or above the solicitation threshold of $50,000 are executed by the Board Chair/designee and the Superintendent/designee as appropriate.



The Superintendent/designee will approve all contracts below the solicitation threshold for Board budgeted funds.




V. Contract Management





The Office of Purchasing will implement and maintain a contract management system that will serve as a means or repository for storing all contracts, including school-based contracts paid with school activity funds.



The Office of Purchasing will develop and maintain appropriate Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) to align with the HCPSS’s strategic goals and be used to measure specific aspects of the procurement function.




VI. District Level Implementation





The Superintendent/designee will oversee implementation and compliance with this policy, including:




Conduct periodic evaluations and report on systemwide compliance with the policy.



Conduct periodic, systemwide review and assessment of this policy and other related HCPSS policies on their effectiveness and, based on this assessment, propose policy revisions.



Retain records documenting compliance with the requirements of the policy.



Document accurate and complete records as to the performance of any contractor/vendor so that "failure to perform" can be well established.



Retain bid files, purchase orders, requisitions and appropriate supportive documentation for a period of not less than five (5) years.




VII. Monitoring



Policy 4050 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


VIII. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


IX. History



ADOPTED:  June 28, 1990
