
I. Investment Instruments



While the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) has the authority to invest its funds in those instruments permissible under state law, the HCPSS will limit its allowable investments to those instruments listed below:


II. Collateralization





Time deposits in excess of FDIC insurable limits must be secured by collateral or private insurance to protect public deposits in a single financial institution if it were to default.



Eligible insurers will have a claims paying rate in the highest or second highest rating category assigned by a nationally recognized rating agency.




III. Qualified Financial Institutions and Intermediaries





Depositories – Demand Deposits




Any financial institution selected by the HCPSS will provide normal banking services, including, but not limited to, checking accounts, wire transfers, and safekeeping services.



The HCPSS will not maintain funds in any financial institution that is not a member of the FDIC system. In addition, the school system will not maintain funds in any institution that does not first agree to post required collateral for funds or purchase private insurance in excess of FDIC insurable limits and in amounts acceptable to the school system.



To qualify as a depository, a financial institution must furnish the Superintendent/designee with copies of the latest two statements of condition which it is required to furnish to the Maryland Comptroller of Currency. While acting as a depository, a financial institution must continue to furnish such statements to the Superintendent/designee within 45 calendar days of the end of each year.



Fees for banking services will be mutually agreed to by an authorized representative of the depository bank and the Superintendent/designee on an annual basis. Fees for services will be substantiated by a monthly account analysis.



Each financial institution acting as a depository for the HCPSS will enter into a depository agreement with an authorized school district official that incorporates this policy and these procedures.




IV. Management of Program





The Superintendent/designee will be responsible for all transactions undertaken and will establish a system of controls to regulate the activities of subordinates.



The Superintendent/designee may use financial intermediaries, brokers, and/or financial institutions to solicit bids for securities and certificates of deposit. These intermediaries must meet the criteria set forth in Section III.C. above and must be approved by the Board.




V. Performance



The Superintendent/designee will seek to earn a rate of return appropriate for the type of investments being managed, given the portfolio objectives defined in the policy. In general, the Superintendent/designee will strive to earn an average rate of return equal to or greater than the U.S. Treasury Bill rate for a given period of time for the average weighted maturity of the HCPSS’s investments.


VI. Monitoring



Policy 4100 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Administration.


VII. History



ADOPTED: April 10, 2008
