
I. Long-range Planning and Student Population Projection



The Office of School Planning will:


II. Capital Improvement Program



The Office of School Planning and the Office of School Construction will:


III. Site Selection



Site selection and acquisition is recommended to the Board after being analyzed for appropriateness for a school. (See Policy 6000 Site Selection and Acquisition.)


IV. Architect Firm and Construction Manager Selection



Procurement of architectural and construction management services are recommended to and approved by the Board in compliance with Policy 6030 Procurement of Architectural and Construction Management Services.


V. Facility Planning and Facility Design



A facility planning team is convened, consisting of school and community members, personnel from the Office of School Construction, a designee from the Office of Safety and Security, other Central Office personnel, such as the Offices of the Environment, Facilities, Food and Nutrition Services, Student Transportation, the project architect, construction manager, and others who may be named by the Superintendent/designee. The planning team provides input to the architect in developing a series of three design studies that meets Board policy as well as the objectives of the applicable educational specifications or renovation guidelines.


VI. Bid and Award



Pursuant to Policy 4050 Procurement of Goods and/or Services, these procedures call for a publicly announced bid period during which interested bidders examine the bid documents and submit a sealed bid by the date and time required. The bid documents are opened in public and the price submitted for each bid item is read aloud. At a subsequent meeting of the Board, the results of the bid are presented and a recommendation to award to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder is made.


VII. Contract and Construction Administration





Office of School Construction


The project architect administers the contract, answers technical questions, approves submittals, and initiates change orders and requests for proposals subject to the Board’s approval. The Office of School Construction coordinates the completion schedule with the principal/designee and other school system personnel to ensure that furniture and equipment deliveries, technology services, and food services satisfy the requirements for their respective sections. Prior to the opening of school, the Office of School Construction monitors each project to resolve any unanticipated problems and continues this supervision during the warranty period.


VIII. Official Acceptance of Capital Improvement Projects



New facilities and other capital improvement projects may be accepted in several ways. If conditions permit, the school system will wait until all major and minor building system corrections are fully complete and all minor repairs, deficiencies and discrepancies (punch list items) have been corrected. The project architect will then certify that the building is complete and has been constructed according to the drawings and specifications. This marks the beginning of the warranty/guarantee period for the building. School facilities are typically scheduled so that all construction will be complete and the building ready for acceptance in early summer. Final inspection and acceptance involves a review of the project at substantial completion of construction, which includes listing items to be adjusted, corrected, or completed by the contractor’s "punch list." In most cases, the project is complete except for minor system work and completion of the punch list items by late summer.


IX. Post-Acceptance Evaluation





After project acceptance, furnishings and movable equipment can be installed, supplies can be delivered and stored, and the staff can occupy the facility for operation. At this time, the construction project enters into a one-year guarantee and a two-year mechanical/electrical guarantee period during which time discrepancies in the workmanship, materials, and equipment supplied under the contract are noted and corrected. Some specifically identified warranties/guarantee periods may be longer than one to two years.



Following the move-in, the Office of School Construction works closely with the school administration and maintenance personnel to correct any problems that arise during the warranty period.



After the first instructional year following construction, a walk-through of the facility is conducted to evaluate the success of the facility as a teaching environment and the success of the educational concepts in the General Elementary Educational Specifications for New Schools, or General Educational Specifications for New Howard County Middle Schools, or General Educational Specifications High Schools or Guidelines Manual for Renovations and Modernizations of Existing Schools in effect at the time the project was designed. The facility is also evaluated as to use of materials, building systems, construction quality, and other aspects pertaining to the building.



A walk-through of the building by a representative team of stakeholders may include a:




Teacher representative



Administration personnel



Custodian



PTA representative



School facilities representative(s); and



Designee from the Offices of Safety and Security.




X. Relocatable Facilities



Placement of relocatable facilities is determined by and implemented as follows:


XI. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


XII. Monitoring



Policy 6020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


XIII. History



ADOPTED: September 13, 1990
