
I. Responsibilities of the School Administrator/Designee or Building Administrator



Collaborate with the petitioner(s) regarding the proposed improvement and contact the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) Director of School Facilities/designee to review the proposal process and to review the Improvement to School System Sites or Facilities Proposal Form.


II. Responsibilities of the Director of School Facilities & Operations/Designee





Provide training on the implementation of Policy 6060 to school administrators and building administrators.



Determine the significance and appropriateness of petitioner’s proposed improvement with input from the Office of Security, Emergency Preparedness, and Response and other applicable offices.



Recommend approval or disapproval of the proposed project to the Chief Operating Officer/designee.



Provide the petitioner status updates throughout the review and evaluation process and notify the petitioner of the decision regarding project approval/disapproval.



If approval is granted by HCPSS, collaborate with the school administrator/designee or building administrator, to proceed with the improvement project by:




Overseeing the project to completion in accordance with the approved plans and time schedule.



Ensuring that the petitioner project includes an approved Acceptance of Donations Form, when applicable.



Ensuring that the petitioner obtains insurance, permits, licenses, etc., as required by the Board/HCPSS and county agencies, prior to the start of work, when applicable.



Ensuring availability of all funds donated by the petitioner that are needed for completion of the project.



Ensuring that the work is performed:




In accordance with requirements from the Office of Security, Emergency Preparedness and Response.



During times when school is not in session, or per an approved exception.



In compliance with the approved plans, acceptable construction practices, and all regulations imposed by building permits and federal and local laws.




III. Responsibilities of the Chief Operating Officer





Upon receipt of the recommendation of the Director of School Facilities and after performing additional review of the proposal, the Chief Operating Officer may grant approval, involving the Superintendent if appropriate.



If the Superintendent considers the proposal(s) to be a significant improvement to real property, they may bring the proposal to the Board for final approval.




IV. Monitoring



Policy 6060 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


V. History



ADOPTED: April 7, 1970
