
I. Definition



Within the context of these procedures, the following definition applies:


II. Personnel Records





Personnel Records Maintained in an Employee’s Personnel File




The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) safeguards personnel records that are part of an employee’s personnel file. Personnel records maintained in an employee’s personnel file, in any format and location, may include, but are not limited to:




Action Plans.



Administrative leave information.



Application for employment documents including reference surveys and/or pre-employment references.



Attendance records.



Background checks.



Benefit information.



Certification information.



Contract documentation including coaching, team leader, and/or sponsor contracts.



Data and information kept by the third party billing office.



Disciplinary action documents including letters of reprimand, suspension, and/or termination.



Employment offer letter and/or contract.



Evaluation documents and responses.



Evidence of completion of trainings.



Family and descriptive social information.



Health records.



Leave records and eligibility information.



Legal proceedings.



Observation reports.



Onboarding records.



Payroll records.



Personal identification data.



Promotional references.



Separation from service documentation.



Social media activity reviews.



Social Security number.



Transcripts, test scores.




III. Security of Personnel Records





All personnel records will be stored securely and will be accessible only to HCPSS Board members, employees, and vendors with legitimate job-related interest.




Personnel records in physical format will be stored in a secure, lockable location.



Personnel records in an electronic format will be password protected.




IV. Management of Personnel Records





Access to Personnel Records




HCPSS Board members, employees, and vendors will not have access to personnel records unless they have a legitimate job-related interest in doing so.



Employees have the right to review their personnel records according to established HCPSS procedures and applicable Master Agreements.



Employees have the right to receive copies of documents contained in their personnel records according to established HCPSS procedures and applicable Master Agreements.



Employee reference letters and information are the property of the HCPSS and are neither available for review by the employee nor available for release to any other party except HCPSS Board members, employees, and vendors who have a legitimate job-related interest.



Employees have the right to request that information determined to be inaccurate or misleading be removed from those records according to HCPSS procedures.



Upon termination, employees will have no further access to their personnel records. Exceptions will be authorized by the Superintendent/Designee.



Records of grievances and appeals under The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-205 will not be included in an employee’s personnel file except as it may confirm a salary or position adjustment.



Public Information Act requests for personnel records will be complied with in compliance with the Maryland Public Information Act, Section 4-101, et seq., General Provisions Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.



Subpoenas received by the HCPSS for personnel records will be processed according to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, as applicable.



Court Orders for the disclosure and/or production of personnel records will be processed in accordance with applicable law.




IV. History



ADOPTED: June 11, 2015
