
I. HCPSS Employee Disclosure of Family Members and Close Relationships





A Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employee who has known family members and/or individuals with whom the employee has a close relationship working for the HCPSS and who does not have relationship disclosure information within Workday, must notify their supervisor and submit the information in Workday by adding or modifying their personal information within 10 business days of becoming aware of this policy.



If a Board member or HCPSS employee enters into a close relationship that would create a violation of this policy:




Within 10 business days, both HCPSS employees must notify his or her supervisor of the close relationship and ensure that relationship is disclosed within Workday in the Relatives Names section of their personal information.



The supervisor must then notify the Executive Director of Human Resources (EDHR) of the disclosure. After a review of the case by the EDHR, one of the HCPSS employees may be transferred to a position in the same job classification if available. The transfer will take place as soon as possible.



If accommodations of this nature are not feasible, the HCPSS employees will be permitted to determine which of them will accept a temporary position until a suitable placement is found or resign.




II. HCPSS Employee Reporting Suspected Violations



HCPSS employees and supervisors who suspect and/or learn of violations of Policy 7020 are to take the appropriate actions:


III. Hiring/Promoting/Transferring Family Members and Individuals in Close Relationships with HCPSS Employees





Family members of HCPSS employees and individuals with whom they have a close relationship who are currently working for HCPSS may be hired, promoted, or transferred if:




They are the best qualified or only candidate for a position in a critical shortage area; and



They will not be supervising or working under the supervision of a family member.




IV. Supervising and Monitoring HCPSS Employees Who are Family Members and Those With Whom the HCPSS Employee has a Close Relationship



The following guidelines will apply when managing or monitoring the employment relationship of family members or an individual with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship within the same school, division, department or office.  These guidelines apply to an HCPSS employee who would, under normal circumstances, be in the chain of command of a supervisor who happens to be a family member:


V. Guidelines for Contracted Services





Agencies who are Board-approved must require individuals who are being recommended to augment HCPSS employees to complete the Relationship Disclosure Form.



The agency will forward the completed Relationship Disclosure Form to the EDHR prior to placement of the individual.



HCPSS hiring supervisors are responsible for notifying the OHR of all individuals who are sourced through a contracted service provider if they will be working in any HCPSS building in any capacity for greater than five (5) consecutive days.




VI. Monitoring



Policy 7020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Human Resources and Professional Development.


VII. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definition applies:


VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 5, 2019
