
I. Dissemination



The principal is directed to inform all students, parents and Howard County School System (HCPSS) employees of the provisions of this policy annually and at other times as appropriate. This includes, but is not limited to the following:


II. Grading





Grades indicate students’ progress toward meeting grade level standards.



Grades in Prekindergarten-5 are derived from a compilation of what students know and/or can do from the marking period.




Evidence of what students know and/or can do includes the following:




Classwork



Formal and informal assessments



Projects



Observations of students




III. Reporting





Teachers will provide updates on student progress by at least mid-quarter, and throughout the remainder of the marking period. Parents may access a student’s progress through the learning management system. Additionally, teachers may communicate progress with parents in person, by phone, or in writing, either electronically or in print, or through an in-person or virtual conference. Teachers will notify the parent, when appropriate, of unsatisfactory progress throughout the marking period.



Report Cards, Prekindergarten-5




Report cards are posted at the conclusion of each marking period.



Final report cards will be posted at the end of the school year.




IV. Academic Intervention



At the end of each quarter, if a Kindergarten-5 student performs below grade/curriculum expectations, the teacher/grade level team will, with the knowledge and appropriate participation of parents, provide additional assistance and opportunities for the student to improve his/her performance.


V. Promotion, Retention, and Accelerated Grade Placement





Consideration for Promotion




The principal will promote a student who achieves curriculum expectations.



A student receiving special education will be assessed based on the provisions of the student’s IEP.



Parents may appeal a decision to promote to the appropriate Superintendent/designee.




VI. Homework





Homework assignments may include the following but are not limited to:




Reading assignments



Tasks, problems, or prompts



Work on larger, long-term projects



Papers



Studying.




VII. Monitoring



Policy 8010 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 27, 1991
