
I. General Procedures





The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) procedures for the selection of instructional resources will be used with the exception of the procedures established for:




The program of Family Life and Human Development; and



Any other resources governed by COMAR.




II. Selection of Resources for the Approved Curriculum Instructional Resources List





All resources for the approved curriculum instructional resources list will be consistent with HCPSS policies and the established HCPSS selection criteria.



Each curricular/program area supervisor will use the HCPSS selection criteria to curate and review proposed additions to the approved curriculum instructional resources list.



All resources for the approved curriculum instructional resources list will adhere to the following public review of proposed resources procedures:




Prior to consideration by the Board, the corresponding Curricular/Program Advisory Committee will provide feedback on the proposals for the approved curriculum instructional resources list according to the HCPSS selection criteria.



Prior to consideration by the Board, all instructional resources intended to be added to the approved curriculum instructional resources list and for systemwide student use will be publicly available for 14 calendar days for parents and community members to review and comment.



The Office of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment will notify the public regarding the opportunity to review the recommended curriculum instructional resources intended to be added to the approved curriculum instructional resources list.



Any HCPSS employee, Howard County community member, HCPSS students or parents may provide feedback concerning the proposed instructional resources by completing the Citizen’s Review of Instructional Resources form included in the public notice and available at the display site.



The Office of Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment will review and respond to all public comments on the proposed instructional resources.




III. Selection of Supplemental Curriculum Instructional Resources





All supplemental curriculum instructional resources to be used with students will be consistent with HCPSS policies and the established HCPSS selection criteria.



Each curricular/program area supervisor will manage the review and selection process of all instructional resources, including digital tools.



Excerpts from audio and visual resources excluded by this policy may be used to address an important instructional purpose including alignment with course-specific literature/texts, advanced placement, or external course (e.g., Howard County Community College courses and Applied Research Laboratory courses) objectives.




IV. Selection of Teacher-Selected and Teacher-Created Instructional Resources





All teacher-selected and teacher-created instructional resources to be used with students will be consistent with HCPSS policies and the established HCPSS selection criteria.



Excerpts from audio and visual resources excluded by this policy may be used to address an important instructional purpose including alignment with course-specific literature/texts, advanced placement, or external course (e.g., Howard County Community College courses and Applied Research Laboratory courses) objectives.




V. Selection of Library Media Center Collection Resources





Library media center collection resources may be selected from the Approved List of Bibliographic Sources and Reviewing Journals maintained by Media Technical Services.



The Approved List of Bibliographic Sources and Reviewing Journals will be posted on the HCPSS website.



Library media center collection resources not reviewed in the Approved List of Bibliographic Sources and Reviewing Journals may be selected and purchased upon favorable evaluation using the Selection Criteria for Media Center Resources form. A separate form is required for each item purchased. Such resources will be in agreement with established policies and selection criteria.




VI. Resource Reevaluation Committee





The Resource Reevaluation Committees (RRC) reevaluates approved curriculum instructional resources and library media center collection resources for which requests for reevaluation are received.




Members of the RRC will be appointed for a two-year period, with one-half of the committee to be replaced or reappointed each year.



The RRC will comprise 11-21 members, including:




An HCPSS employee appointed by the Superintendent/designee who will serve as the chairperson (chair) of the committee.



Students from across the county (at least one).



Curricular/program area supervisors assigned to the committee by the chair based on the resources to be reevaluated.



An equal number of members representing the following stakeholder groups:




Community members from across the county comprised of:






Parents with students currently enrolled in HCPSS, must be the majority of the community representatives.



Howard County residents.




VII. Request for Review of Supplemental Curriculum, Teacher-Selected, and Teacher-Created Instructional Resources





Currently enrolled students and their parents may request to review supplemental curriculum, teacher-selected, and teacher-created instructional resources in use, in writing to the school principal. HCPSS employees may only request to review supplemental curriculum instructional resources in use.



The principal will:




Make available specific resources for review upon request,



Review questioned resources against the criteria outlined in the HCPSS selection criteria and make every effort to resolve the concern at the school level.



Notify the Superintendent’s designee if a supplemental curriculum instructional resource does not comply with the criteria outlined in the policy for action.



Notify the HCPSS employee and the Community Superintendent if a teacher-selected or teacher-created instructional resource does not comply with the criteria outlined in the policy for action.



Notify the requestor of the disposition of the review.




VIII. Request for Review and Reevaluation of Approved Curriculum Instructional Resources and Library Media Center Collection Resources





Currently enrolled students, parents of currently enrolled students, and current HCPSS employees may request to review approved curriculum instructional resources and library media center collection resources used in their school of attendance or employment, using the following process.:




Request for review of approved curriculum instructional resources should be directed to the school principal where the resource is available or in use.



The principal will make available specific resources for review upon request and make every effort to resolve the concern at the school level.



Following a review of the resources and a conference with the principal, the student, parent, or HCPSS employee may file a Request for Reevaluation of Instructional Resources In Use form with the principal of the school if an unsatisfactory solution was not reached at the school level.



The principal will forward a copy of the completed form to the Superintendent/designee.




X. Monitoring



Policy 8040 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


XI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definition applies:


XII. History



ADOPTED: October 26, 1989
