
I. Dissemination of Information





Notification of the provisions of this policy and these implementation procedures will be provided annually to all students, families, employees, and service providers through customary channels of communication.



Principals will notify all technology users in their schools of the responsibilities of individuals using HCPSS technology and social media and of guidelines for network activities at the beginning of the school year.



Department supervisors will notify those under their supervision of the provisions of this policy and implementation procedures annually, with reminders as necessary.



The Superintendent/designee will include language in contracts, when applicable, that requires all contractors and vendors to review and comply with this policy and all related policies.



The Office of Use of School Facilities will notify individuals or organizations seeking to use HCPSS technology of the provisions of this policy and these implementation procedures as part of agreements to use HCPSS facilities in accordance with
Policy 10020 Use of School Facilities
.




II. Responsibilities





Individuals using HCPSS technology will not intentionally create, access, share, download or print content that:




Depicts profanity, obscenity, the use of weapons, terrorism, gang affiliation, and/or violence.



Promotes use of tobacco, drugs, alcohol, and/or other illegal or harmful products.



Contains sexually suggestive messages, or is sexually explicit or obscene.



Contains language or symbols that demean an identifiable person or group or otherwise infringe on the rights of others.



Causes or is likely to cause a disruption to HCPSS activities or the orderly operation of HCPSS.



Contains rude, disrespectful, or discourteous expressions inconsistent with civil discourse or behavior.



Constitutes bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation in violation of
Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct
,
Policy 1040 Safe and Supportive Schools
, and
Policy 1060 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, and Intimidation
.



Reasonable exceptions to this provision may be made for students conducting research under the direction of an instructor and employees completing HCPSS related responsibilities. Specific permission will be granted regarding the nature of the research to be conducted and the type of files related to that research which might be accessed or created.




III. Violation of Policy





Any individual who suspects a violation of this policy or these implementation procedures will report the alleged violation to the appropriate administrator or supervisor for investigation.



The administrator or supervisor will report the suspected violation to the Superintendent/designee for further investigation and potential disciplinary action.



In cases that may be criminal in nature (threats, stalking, harassment, etc.) or that may pose a safety threat, an investigation will be conducted in consultation and cooperation with the Superintendent/designee.



In cases of probable or potential harm to an individual, appropriate follow-through and communication with the individual in danger and others who are in a position to protect that individual from harm including, but not limited to law enforcement, if necessary, must be undertaken by the individual who discovers the probable or potential harm.




IV. Monitoring



Policy 8080 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


V. References



HCPSS Mobile Technology Duties and Obligations Notice


VI. History



ADOPTED: November 26, 2002
