
I. Approval of District-Selected and District-Designed Assessments





District-selected assessments will be evaluated and placed on the approved assessment list by the Superintendent’s Cabinet.



District-designed assessments may be recommended for approval by curriculum offices and evaluated by the Superintendent’s Cabinet for placement on the approved assessment list.



Criteria for evaluation will include, but are not limited to the:




Alignment with the current Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) goals and objectives.



Validity and reliability of the assessment.



Number of students impacted by the assessment.



Effects of the assessment on delivery of instruction.



Cost of the assessment.



Applications of the assessment data.



Accessibility of the assessments.




II. Administration of State-Mandated, District-Selected and District-Designed Assessments





The Superintendent/designee will:


Appoint a central office administrator who serves as the Local Accountability Coordinator (LAC), who is responsible for the oversight of the implementation of state and local assessment administration and data reporting policies within HCPSS and who serves as the liaison between MSDE and HCPSS regarding assessment administration.


III. Reporting and Investigating Alleged Testing Violations





Allegations of potential testing violations by students or HCPSS employees at the school level will be reported immediately to STC, to the school principal, and to the LAC.



The LAC and other appropriate central office administrators will investigate reports of alleged testing violations.



In investigating reports of alleged violations involving state-mandated assessments, the LAC will be guided by MSDE, HCPSS, and vendor-specific policies and procedures as referenced in Section VII. of this policy.



All cases of alleged violations for state-mandated assessments will be reported to the MSDE according to their guidelines.



In investigating reports of alleged testing violations involving district-selected assessments, the LAC will be guided by assessment manuals and other assessment administration documents related to the specific tests. Following an investigation, if it is determined that a violation has occurred, consequences will be determined by the Superintendent/Designee.



The LAC will meet all requirements and requests of the MSDE where applicable and all requirements and requests of the HCPSS where applicable.



Violations of this policy by HCPSS employees or students may result in the invalidation of assessment results.



Violations of this policy by an HCPSS employee may result in disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal by the Superintendent.



Testing violations by an HCPSS employee with regard to state-mandated assessments may also result in the suspension and/or revocation of administrative or teaching credentials, or both, by the State Superintendent of Schools.




IV. Students Receiving Home and Hospital Services or Assigned to Evening School





All persons administering assessments to students receiving home and hospital services or assigned to evening school will receive all required training and adhere to all procedures for assessment security and administration developed by the LAC.



Students assigned to evening school are required to participate in all state-mandated and district-selected assessments.



Students receiving home and hospital services will participate in state-mandated and district-selected assessments.



Students receiving home and hospital services may take state mandated, district- selected and district-designed assessments at their designated schools. When students are unable to be assessed in their designated schools, arrangements will be made to administer assessments by a certified administrator/examiner in an appropriate setting.




V. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VI. Monitoring



Policy 8120 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Office of the Deputy Superintendent.


VII. History



ADOPTED: November 12, 1992
