
I. Announcement/Dissemination of Information





Administrators/designees will provide annual written notice of the general provisions of this policy. This notice will be provided to students, parents, employees, and service providers in their school/offices at the beginning of each school year, to new hires under their supervision throughout the year, and to new students and their parents upon registration. This notice can be provided electronically.



Administrators/designees will provide additional notification by:




Providing an overview of the policy within the first 10 school days of the school year and as new hires and students join the school community.



Publishing a link to the policy in school newsletters; on the school website; and in student/employee handbooks.



Providing this policy in hard copy to any student, employee, parent, or service provider upon request.




II. Procedures for Students to Exercise Their Rights





The school administrators will maintain a school culture, in which all students are welcomed to exercise their rights.



The administrator/designee will ensure students know the school process for exercising their rights outlined in Section I.B. of these implementation procedures.



If a student wishes to discuss their rights, the principal will make staff available in a practical, private, and age-appropriate way of doing so.



Although students may exercise their rights in the school setting, they may be subject to restrictions based on the unique circumstances of the school environment. Parents and students may make requests to exercise rights by writing to their school administrator. The administrator will maintain a running record of all student rights requests. The administrator will respond within three (3) school days after the recorded receipt date. A student may exercise grievance over school administration decisions using the processes described in Section III. of these implementation procedures.




III. Grievances and Appeals



The school system provides school-level informal and formal mechanisms and processes to address school-related concerns.


IV. Disciplinary Action



Student’s inability to adhere to their responsibilities outlined in the policy may result in disciplinary action.Local boards of education are required to adopt a set of regulations designed to maintain an environment of order and discipline necessary for effective learning; these regulations should provide for counseling and standards for appropriate disciplinary measures and may permit suspension or expulsion. (COMAR 13A.08.01.11)


V. Arrests and Questioning of Students



Specific legal guidelines govern the conditions under which students may be questioned and/or arrested on school property, and the rights to which they are entitled during those processes.


VI. Search of a Student



Specific guidelines governing the conditions under which students or their possessions may be searched, along with the procedures that must be followed to document these actions are outlined in Policy 9260 Student Search and Seizure.


VII. Items That May Be the Object ofSeizure



The purpose of seizing student property must be for an item, the possession or use of which is suspected to be a violation of any law, HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct. Such items include but are not limited to weapons, including look-alike and non-deadly weapons, controlled dangerous substances, medications or over-the-counter medications, drug paraphernalia, alcoholic beverages, explosive devices, fireworks, stolen items, tobacco products and personal technology devices that are used in violation of HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.


VIII. Refusal to Allow Search and Seizure



A student’s refusal to cooperate with an Authorized Searcher at any time during a search of the student or of possessions deemed to be detrimental to the security, discipline, or sound administration of the school is in violation of the Student Code of Conduct and may result in disciplinary action.


IX. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definition applies:


X. Monitoring



Policy 9020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


XI. History



ADOPTED: May 11, 1995
