
I. Content





Decisions regarding the content of any school-sponsored publications or productions rest with the editor(s)/student leaders and associated advisors/sponsors of the publication or production, subject to the authority of the principal/designee.



The author’s name will be required on each communication submitted for publication. It is the responsibility of the editor and advisor/sponsor as to the form and method by which an author is identified.




II. Finances and Equity





School-sponsored publications and productions may obtain financial sponsorship to supplement the funds provided by Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). The advisor/sponsor and principal/designee are responsible for ensuring that expenses are covered in the budget.



The school will strive to provide equal opportunities for all students to participate in or make contributions to school-sponsored publications and productions.




III. Advertising



All advertisements in school-sponsored publications, including programs associated with school-sponsored productions, are subject to the following criteria, which will be applied by the advisor/sponsor, subject to the authority of the principal/designee, in determining whether to permit inclusion of such advertisements:


IV. Appeal Process





A student who disagrees with a decision of an advisor/sponsor related to the content or other aspects of a publication may appeal the decision to the principal/designee within two (2) school days.



The principal/designee will meet with the student within two (2) school days of receipt of the request. The principal/designee will have two (2) school days after meeting with the student to render a written decision. The principal will solicit input from stakeholders as part of the decision-making process.



If the principal does not provide a decision within two (2) school days of meeting with the student, or if the student is dissatisfied with the decision of the principal/designee, then the student may appeal in writing to the appropriate Community Superintendent/Director of Schools within two (2) school days.



The Community Superintendent/Director of Schools will respond to the student appeal in writing within two (2) school days of receipt of the appeal. Any further appeal is subject to Section 4-205 of the Education Article, Annotated Code of Maryland.




V. Monitoring



Policy 9030 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VI. History



ADOPTED: December 13, 1990
