
I. Implementation Procedures Statement



Coordinated school health is a systematic approach to improving students’ health and well-being so they can participate and succeed in school. Developing habits for healthy eating and regular physical activity can have a lifelong positive impact on students’ health. A coordinated approach calls for the Board of Education, Superintendent, and employees to work together, engage families and communities, and commit to consistent modeling of healthy behaviors to ensure access to affordable, nutritious food. Attention to the physical, social, emotional, and mental health of our student body involves the entire community, including students, parents, counselors, teachers, health professionals, community organizations, administrators, and more.


II. Health and Nutrition Education





Students in prekindergarten-grade 12 will receive health education in multiple formats with opportunities to acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills necessary for making health-promoting decisions, achieving health literacy, adopting health-enhancing behaviors, and promoting healthy lifestyles.



The health education curriculum will include nutrition education for students in prekindergarten–grade 8 and in the required high school health education courses. Nutrition education will provide students with developmentally appropriate, culturally relevant, participatory activities to develop student understanding of the food system and to experience a variety of tastes.




At the elementary level, the health education curriculum will be taught by the classroom teacher as one of the five content areas in the elementary curricular program.



At the middle school level, the health education curriculum will be taught every day for one quarter, or in a schedule with a comparable number of hours.



Commencing in school year 2022-2023 at the high school level, the health education curriculum will be taught for one semester during the 9th grade year and one semester during the 11th or 12th grade year, to meet high school graduation requirements.



Health education will be taught by a qualified and certified health education teacher.



Nutrition education, which also includes food literacy, will develop student understanding of the food system and aid students in experiencing different tastes through programs such as: school gardens, visiting local farms, Days of Taste or similar programs, Department of Agriculture Robinson Nature Center, community college curriculum, and others.



The cafeteria will be utilized as a learning environment to reinforce nutrition education.




III. Physical Education and Physical Activity





Physical Education




Students at all grade levels will have access to the physical education curriculum.



The HCPSS will implement a physical education curriculum for students in prekindergarten-grade 8.




The elementary school schedule will reflect an average of 90 minutes of physical education per week.



The middle school master schedule will reflect 50 minutes of physical education daily for a minimum of two quarters annually.



The HCPSS may not:




Authorize a student to substitute other activities for a standards-based physical education program for graduation credits, such as but not limited to interscholastic sports, community-based sports, physical therapy, Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC), or marching band.



Waive the standards-based physical education requirement needed to meet graduation requirements.



Excuse students from the standards-based physical education program to participate in content area classes or to complete classwork assignments in other content areas; or



Withhold students from the standards-based physical education program as a punishment, unless the student is also removed from the regular classroom setting as part of an in-school suspension or similar disciplinary intervention.




IV. Facilities and Equipment





When schools are built or renovated, the design of gymnasium facilities will consider the Physical Education Facilities Guidelines issued by the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE).



The HCPSS will review its permitting and actual space usage each year to ensure maximum use of school facilities during and after school in accordance with Policy 10020 Use of School Facilities.




V. Nutrition Services; Foods and Beverages



These procedures apply to all foods and beverages made available to students during the school day including but not limited to:


VI. District-Level Implementation



The Superintendent/designee will oversee school implementation and compliance with this policy including:


VII. School-Level Implementation





Each school principal will ensure that a School Wellness Team is formed annually to spearhead health and wellness initiatives at the school that are in compliance with this policy. The principal will establish a system to annually identify School Wellness Team members which may include parents/guardians, teachers of physical education, classroom teachers, school nurses/assistants, students, school administrators, and community health and wellness partners.



Each school principal will annually designate a school employee to serve as the School Wellness Champion who will:




Lead and coordinate their school’s efforts to increase healthy eating and physical activity for students.



Serve as the liaison for their respective school’s policy implementation and reporting.



Establish and lead a School Wellness Team that develops goals, strategies, and initiatives for student health, wellness, and physical activity during the school year.




VIII. Employee Health and Wellness





The HCPSS will support employee wellness by providing opportunities for employees to improve their overall health by offering resources, programming, services and support for employees to seek healthy lifestyle choices that enhance their physical, emotional, mental, and social well-being. These efforts will assist employees to make informed lifestyle choices in an effort to improve their health status, and provide them with a greater understanding of the system’s overall coordinated school and workplace health approach.



All employees will be encouraged to promote a healthy school environment by modeling healthy behaviors throughout the school day and at school-sponsored meetings and events. This includes engaging in physical activity when possible and consuming foods in front of students that meet the competitive food nutritional standards.



When feasible, the HCPSS will offer professional learning opportunities and resources for employees to increase knowledge and skills about promoting healthy behaviors in the classroom, the workplace, and their personal lives. Professional learning will help employees understand the connections between academics and health and the ways in which health and wellness are integrated into ongoing improvement plans/efforts.




IX. Family/Community Collaboration





The HCPSS will partner with the Howard County School Health Council (COMAR 13A.05.05) and other agencies to support the implementation of coordinated and comprehensive school health practices.



Parents and members of the community have the opportunity to be involved in implementation of this policy through:




Howard County School Health Council: Parents and members of the community may serve on the School Health Council and/or its subcommittee.



School Wellness Teams: Parents and community health and wellness partners will be invited to participate in school-level School Wellness Teams.



Boosters and PTA Council of Howard County (PTACHC): The Superintendent/Designee will work with schools and community organizations such as the Boosters and PTACHC.




X. Recordkeeping



The HCPSS participates in the USDA Child Nutrition Programs and is required to undergo an administrative review every three years. As part of the administrative review, the state agency must assess the HCPSS’s compliance with the Local School Wellness Policy Final Rule.


XI. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


XII. Monitoring



Policy 9090 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


XIII. History



ADOPTED: March 23, 2006
