
I. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


II. Announcement/Dissemination of Information





Written notices will be posted in every Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) school that contains information regarding gang activity and similar destructive or delinquent group behavior.



Annually, the principal will notify students, parents, employees, and third parties of the general provisions of this policy. Notification may be:




Given via announcement over the school public address system



Published in newsletters, on the school/system websites, or in student/employee handbooks



Posted on bulletin boards in offices and other commonly used areas.




III. Reporting Procedures





From Internal Sources:




Under the Safe Schools Act of 2010, all school employees will report any incidents of suspected gang activity or similar destructive or delinquent group behavior to the principal and/or to the school security officer.



If a student, parent, guardian, or other person tells a school employee about any gang-related activity or similar destructive or delinquent group behavior, the school employee must report that information to the administrator/designee.



If a student, employee, or third party reports that he/she is currently the target/victim or member of a gang, the staff member will respond quickly and report the incident to a school administrator/designee.



The administrator/designee will complete the Gang-Related Incident Reporting Form.



Upon receipt of a report, the administrator/designee and the school security officer will initiate an immediate investigation within 24 hours and determine whether the suspected gang activity actually occurred. A gang report of a high level of security will initiate immediate notification of appropriate school system personnel within 24 hours. They will take steps to verify who committed the act and whether others played a role in perpetrating this act. Other related complaints, if any, will be reviewed in making this determination.



Administration will apply consequences and/or remedial actions consistent with the
Student Code of Conduct
,
Policy 9200 Student Discipline
,
Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline
, and the Procedures for the Threat Management Process.



Administrators will notify parents of both the offender and/or victim of the allegation.



The administrator/designee will create a record of the gang-related incident, which will include the Gang-Related Incident Investigation Form and any disciplinary actions taken, statements of the offender, the victim, and witnesses. Discussions with all parties will be documented.



The school principal will be responsible for creating a repository for the gang-related activity information and the reporting forms.



HCPSS will maintain a monitoring/tracking system to use as a database for evaluation purposes.




IV. Violations of Policy





Student Violations


If an individual believes that a student has violated this policy, the following procedures will be followed:


V. Intervention





Principals will provide professional development to school staff on how to respond appropriately to students who may be involved with gang activity.



Principals/Designees or central office administrators will provide appropriate assistance to students or staff who have been affected by behavior prohibited in this policy.



A student or staff member who shows the potential to become involved in gang activity may be required to participate in appropriate counseling/intervention to increase the student’s or staff member’s understanding of the potential consequences of being involved with gangs.



When warranted, follow-up assistance will be provided to victims.




VI. Prevention Procedures





The Office of School Security will coordinate professional development periodically to ensure that staff are aware of the prevalence, causes, and consequences of gang involvement and can use evidenced-based positive behavior supports in dealing with these situations.



Administrators will collect, analyze, and use school-specific data regarding the number of incidents of gang or gang-related activities to guide school improvement efforts to ensure safe and nurturing environments and an “anti-gang culture.” Components of “anti-gang culture” include but are not limited to:




Behavioral expectations



A plan for teaching behavioral expectations



An ongoing system for recognizing appropriate behaviors



A process for responding to problem behaviors



Collection and analysis of data to implement strategies for improving school climate.




VII. History



ADOPTED: June 9, 2011
