
I. Announcement/Dissemination of Information





School administrators/supervisors will provide annual written notice of the general provisions of this policy that states bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation are prohibited in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). This notice will be provided to students, parents, and HCPSS employees in their school/offices during the first week of each school year, to new hires under their supervision during the first (2) two weeks of their start date, and to new students and their parents upon registration.



School administrators/supervisors will provide additional notification by:




Providing announcements over the school public address system and/or through online communication tools.



Publishing a link to the policy in school newsletters, on the school website, and in student/parent handbooks.



Posting notification in offices, classrooms, and other commonly used areas.



Providing this policy in hard copy to any student, parent, or HCPSS employee upon request.




II. Professional Development



The HCPSS will provide annual professional development to ensure that HCPSS employees increase their awareness of the prevalence, causes, and consequences of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation.


III. Prevention Procedures





HCPSS employees will implement school-wide, evidence-based anti-bullying programs as a part of a system of positive behavioral supports and school improvement efforts at all grade levels. Programs should have an emphasis on creating and maintaining a positive school climate where all students feel physically and emotionally safe. Components will include, but not be limited to, the following:




Promotion of student involvement in anti-bullying efforts, peer support, and creating and maintaining a culture of mutual respect that encourages students to report incidents of bullying.



Defined behavioral expectations.



A plan for teaching behavioral expectations including understanding the impact of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, intimidation, or retaliation.



An ongoing system for encouraging and recognizing appropriate behaviors.



A system for responding to problematic behavior.



The continuous collection and analysis of data to identify and implement strategies for maintaining and/or improving a positive school climate.




IV. Reporting Procedures



The BCHI Form should be used to report alleged incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation that occur at school or have a connection or nexus back to the school setting that create a risk of harm to other students while they are at school, or interfere with the educational environment.


V. Investigation Procedures





The school administrator will address incidents that occur at school or have a connection or nexus back to the school setting that create a risk of harm to other students while they are at school or interfere with the educational environment.



The incident must be promptly and appropriately investigated by the school administrator, consistent with due process rights, using the BCHI Reporting Form in compliance with Maryland’s Model Policy To Address Bullying, Harassment, or Intimidation within two (2) school days after receipt of a reporting form.



The school administrator will strive to maintain the confidentiality of the targeted student, the accused, and the witness(es) to the extent possible. The school administrator should not promise confidentiality to involved parties at the onset of an investigation. It cannot be predicted what will be discovered. Efforts should be made to increase the confidence and trust of the targeted student and any witnesses. Students should be informed that any information discussed and recorded will be confined to “need to know” status.



The school administrator will make every effort to notify the parent(s) of the targeted student immediately, but no later than one (1) school day of the report. The parent(s) of the individual(s) who has/have been accused of participating in the incident will be notified in a timely manner, but no later than three (3) school days.



The school administrator will conduct an adequate, reliable, and impartial investigation of the complaint, which may include interviewing the complainant and witnesses along with the opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence.



The school administrator will comply with due process rights, which include:




Notifying the accused of the allegations.



Providing an explanation of the evidence if the accused denies the allegations.



Allowing the accused an opportunity to respond to the allegations and encouraging them to provide a written response, when appropriate.



Notifying the parent(s) of the accused promptly, in writing, of the violation and disciplinary consequence.




VI. Violations of Policy





Any school administrator who believes that a student has violated this policy must also consider the following: Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination, Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct, Policy 1025 Title IX Sexual Discrimination, Policy 1030 Child Abuse and Neglect, Policy 1040 Safe and Supportive Schools, Policy 8080 Responsible use of Technology, Digital Tools, and Social Media, Policy 9060 Rehabilitation Act of 1973 Compliance: Section 504, or Policy 9200 Student Discipline, the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct, or the HCPSS Threat Management Procedures.



Consequences and remedial actions for students committing acts of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation, students engaged in retaliation, and students who have made false accusations will be consistently and fairly applied after an appropriate investigation has determined that such an offense has occurred. Guidelines on consequences and remedial actions include:




Consequences for disciplinary infractions should be equitably, consistently, and fairly applied after an appropriate and thorough investigation has determined that an offense has occurred. The school administrator/designee will promptly implement one or more of the corrective actions outlined on the Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, or Intimidation Investigation Form, consistent with the consequences outlined in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.




Exclusionary discipline measures should be avoided and only used after all other available and appropriate behavioral interventions have been exhausted or if a student’s continued presence in school would pose a threat to the safety of others.



School administrators/designees are encouraged to choose rehabilitative interventions designed to provide students the opportunity to learn from their mistakes.




VII. Intervention and Supports





School administrators will utilize a range of integrated tiered supports providing universal strategies for all students, targeted supports for both potentially vulnerable students and students exhibiting bullying behaviors, as well as individualized, intense supports for both the targeted student(s) and the student offenders(s).



School administrators will ensure a continuum of positive behavior supports are implemented as part of their school wide behavioral plan.



A student who violates this policy may be required by the school administrator/supervisor to participate in appropriate counseling/intervention to increase the student’s understanding of the offense and its impact on others.



Support services available to the targeted student, the student exhibiting bullying behaviors, and witnesses or bystanders will be implemented as appropriate based on context, situation, age, and severity. Such supports may include, but are not limited to:




School System




Counseling



Conflict resolution



Restorative practices



Problem-solving skills training



Social skills training, including anger management/impulse control



Peer support groups



Schedule modifications



Collaboration with school-based problem solving teams




VII. Monitoring



Policy 1060 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics and Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 11, 2009
