
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes that collaboration with the broader community is critical in the achievement of the Howard County Public School System’s (HCPSS) mission and goals. Therefore, as a service to the community, the Board allows distribution and display of information through school- or system-designated communication channels, or through students.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to inform the public and staff about criteria for displaying, posting or distributing informational materials and announcements, including but not limited to: information sent home to or through students or distributed electronically; information on community display tables, racks or bulletin boards; and information made available at back-to-school nights, open houses, or other school-related activities.


III. Standards





All distribution and display of approved materials and announcements by community organizations in or through schools or students, or through HCPSS communication channels, will comply with established HCPSS processes for such distribution.



Public agencies or non-profit service organizations will request permission to distribute free informational materials through the school system’s Public Information Office. Such materials will bear the sponsoring organization’s name.



The principal/designee will permit HCPSS students to disseminate approved materials and announcements that are not associated with school-sponsored or school-related activities, providing the materials or announcements comply with established procedures.



Violations of this policy and the associated procedures are subject to the following consequences:




Confiscation of the material.



Criminal prosecution of non-students for trespass.



Disciplinary action against students.




IV. Responsibilities





The Public Information Office will ensure that all community organizations approved to disseminate approved materials in or through schools or students, or through HCPSS communication channels, are informed of the requirements of this policy and related procedures.



The principal/designee will ensure that HCPSS students who disseminate materials and announcements that are not associated with school-related activities, comply with this policy and related procedures.



HCPSS will inform parents annually of their right not to receive materials from community organizations approved for distribution in schools.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-205




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 9, 1973
