
I. Requirements for Use





The use of school facilities is subject to the approval of the Superintendent pursuant to this policy statement and the implementation procedures.



All activities must be open to the public and cannot discriminate on the basis of location of residence within Howard County.



All organizations wishing to use the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) facilities must submit a completed  application. The individual submitting the application must be 18 years of age or older. The approved application for facilities is not subject to transfer, assignment, and/or subleasing.



Adequate and appropriate supervision will be provided by the using organization. HCPSS personnel assigned as custodians, or any other school representatives, will not assume any of the supervisory responsibilities related to the activity.



No decorations will be used in the buildings unless they are of fireproof material. There will be no use of flammable materials nor open flames in school buildings or on school grounds.



For any public assembly where 250 or more persons are anticipated, the using organization is required to have one certified adult crowd manager present for every 250 people as specified by the Howard County Fire Marshal.



When any organization is meeting in a school facility, or when any activity involving people is in session in the school, all exits which in any way serve the area(s) being used must be free of padlocks, chains, or other obstructions. There must be free egress for all persons in the event of an emergency. The using organization will establish these conditions with the aid of the assigned custodian or school representative. The above-stated conditions will be maintained by the organization, during the period of its occupancy.



Motor vehicles will be parked only in designated areas; no driving or parking will be permitted on field areas.



Each using organization will have a standard procedure in case of an emergency. Leaders of respective organizations will be familiar with contact procedures of the police, ambulance, and fire department.



Equipment and materials owned by the user may be stored with permission in schools at the user’s risk. The Board will not be liable for their abuse, damage, or theft.



Any sale of food must be approved in advance by the Use of School Facilities Office and be in compliance with the Howard County Health Department regulations.



Grass cutting and grounds maintenance will be performed by HCPSS personnel only.



Any alteration or installation of equipment (goals, backstops, fences, etc.) must have prior written approval from the Use of School Facilities Office.



All soccer goals must be staked or properly weighted at all times, whether in storage or during use.



Games such as soft toss, which result in baseballs/softballs being driven into backstops or fences, are prohibited.



The using organization will leave assigned areas as clean and in as good working order as the areas were found. Violations may result in:




Denying further use



Charges for cleaning and/or repair services.




II. Facility Use Schedule





The first priority will be given to the program and activity needs of the school system and school-related support organizations.



The second priority will be given to those groups that provide opportunities to students within the local geographic areas.



Subsequent priorities will be established as indicated in the following charts:


Chart A
- Season: Fall, Winter, and Spring Activity Period


III. Administrative Guidelines





To ensure coordinated, maximum public utilization of all facilities, a master schedule shall be established by the Superintendent or his/her designee and maintained at the Department of Education by the Superintendent or his/her designee. Each school will develop its own master calendar of building use and submit it to the Use of School Facilities Office by the established date. This will enable coordinated maximum public utilization of all facilities.



If a principal/designee feels that the building is being misused by any user:




The principal/designee will point out the misuse or non-use to the user.



The principal will also notify the Use of School Facilities Office, in writing, of the misuse or non-use.



If misuse or non-use continues, the principal/designee will stop the activity.



The principal will report the misuse or non-use to the Use of School Facilities Office who will (in cooperation with the appropriate department head if educational matters are involved) investigate the complaint and determine whether the user should be prohibited from any further use of county schools and/or charged for the damages. Users will be notified of the decision prior to the charge.



Users will request reinstatement of facility use privileges by writing to the Use of School Facilities Office.



All determinations will be made by the Use of School Facilities Office.




IV. Exclusions



The following are not permitted by users:


V. Payment





All payments will be made to the Finance Office.



Remittance of charges must be paid to the HCPSS within 10 days after receiving invoice.



If, for any reason, the facilities are not used at the time requested and approved, indicated charges for costs incurred by the Board will be paid to the Finance Office unless the Use of School Facilities Office is notified of a cancellation at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled activity.




VI. School Closures





All use of school facilities will be canceled when schools are closed for the full day or dismissed early due to emergency conditions or emergency measures.



In the case of inclement weather, a permit may be suspended in order to prevent damage to grounds/facilities.



If a snow emergency plan for Howard County is in effect at 7:00 a.m. on Saturday, Sunday, or on a day when schools are closed for students, all community programs and activities scheduled to take place in school facilities are canceled. Should the snow emergency plan go into effect after 7:00 a.m., programs and activities that are in progress may be completed. All programs scheduled to begin after the time that the snow emergency plan went into effect are cancelled.



Groups are under no obligation to hold activities in the event that schools are open for community and school use during inclement weather. If the user group wishes to cancel prior to or during an activity, they may do so without penalty upon notification to the Use of School Facilities Office. The user group is responsible for notifying the participants.




VII. Restrictions





Use of specified areas and equipment including, but not limited to, computer labs, computers, tents, inflatables, lifts, ladders, stadiums, field hockey fields, kitchens, weight rooms, auditoriums, and therapy tanks will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.



Cooking classes are restricted solely to the family and consumer science room, cafeteria, or the specific recreation activity room designed for food preparation.




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 13, 1989
