
I. Policy Statement



Public school facilities in Howard County are devoted primarily to instructional programs and school-sponsored activities. Nonetheless, the Board of Education of Howard County recognizes that facilities paid for by the taxpayers of Howard County should be utilized to the fullest extent possible. It is the determination of the Board that the interests of the Howard County community merit the use of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) facilities. Thus, the use of school facilities for community purposes is encouraged by the Board and is in accordance with the Annotated Code of Maryland.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide a uniform procedure to establish processes that provide for the use of public school facilities in Howard County.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Application Process




Nonprofit organizations may use school buildings and grounds for educational, civic, social, religious, and recreational activities.



Users will conduct activities that are:




Orderly and lawful



In compliance with federal, state, and local laws as well as the policies, rules, regulations, and procedures of the Board



Not of a nature to incite others to disorder.




V. Compliance





The Use of School Facilities Office will be responsible for coordinating the use of all HCPSS outdoor areas and facilities.



The principal/athletic and activity manager is responsible for submitting school needs within the established timetable.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. Section 501)



COMAR 13A.02.04.01--.07



Annotated Code of Maryland, Article 14



Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง7-108, ยง7-109, ยง7-110




C. Other





Application for Use of School Facilities



Cancellation - Use of School Facilities Permit




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 25, 1975
