
I. Announcement/Dissemination of Information



Notification of the provisions of this policy and these implementation procedures will be given annually to all students, families, employees, and third parties. Principals are responsible for the initial notification of Policy 1010 to all students, families, third parties, and employees in their schools during new student orientation and the first week of school. Supervisors are responsible for notifying those under their supervision. Methods used include three or more of the following:


II. Reporting Violations of Policy



School-based administrators and supervisors will maintain a school and work place culture, in which students, staff, and families, and the community may complete a reporting form or orally report alleged discrimination without fear of retaliation.


III. Investigations Conducted by the Equity Assurance Manager/designee





The Equity Assurance Manager/designee will document complaints received, investigate them, and render findings (except as noted in Section II.A.4.).




The Equity Assurance Manager/designee will conduct an adequate, reliable, and impartial investigation of the complaint, which may include interviewing the complainant and witnesses along with the opportunity to present witnesses and other evidence.  The Equity Assurance Manager/designee will provide notice to the parties in writing of the outcome of the complaint and the basis for the decision within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of complaint by the school system’s Equity Assurance Manager/designee, excluding extenuating circumstances.



If the Equity Assurance Manager/designee is unable to complete these activities within the prescribed time limit, all parties will be notified and a revised timeline will be provided.




IV. Resolution of Violations



When violations have occurred, employees in supervisory or management positions are responsible for taking steps designed to end any existing discrimination by those under their supervision, prevent any recurrence, and correct discriminatory effects on the complainant and others.


V. History



ADOPTED: October 25, 1990
