
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education is committed to providing an educational and work environment that is free from discrimination, fosters equitable opportunities, and values diversity and commonality. The Board prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, creed, national origin, immigration status, religion, physical, mental, or educational disability, pregnancy, age, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran status or socioeconomic status in the educational program, including co-curricular and extra-curricular activities, and in the workplace.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish expectations for behavior that promote a safe, supportive school and work environment and provide direction for students, employees, and third parties in recognizing and reporting discrimination in accordance with this policy and with local, state, and federal requirements.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





It is a violation of this policy for any student, employee, or third party to engage in acts of discrimination in schools, school system offices, or at school-related activities, or at school system sponsored activities.


Student, employee, or third party behavior may be severe enough to violate state and/or federal laws prohibiting discrimination in educational institutions and the workplace.


V. Responsibilities





Principals will notify students, families, third parties, and employees in their schools in a timely manner of all of the provisions within this policy.



Supervisors will notify all those under their immediate supervision of the provisions within this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will facilitate the communication of the provisions within this policy annually through customary channels such as email, literature, power points, or any other viable communication.



The Equity Assurance Manager/designee will commence appropriate action within two working days upon receipt of the complaint regardless of how the complaint is reported.



Employees will monitor the behavior of students, staff, and third parties, and respond within one working day in an appropriate manner to both observed and reported violations of this policy.



All employees in supervisory or management positions will take the necessary steps designed to end any existing discrimination by those under their supervision, to prevent any recurrence, and to correct discriminatory effects on the complainant and others.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References





Legal




Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. Sec. 1681



Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C., Sec 601 and Sec. 2000e.2



Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, 29 U.S.C. §§ 621-634 Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), 42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq.



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. 1400-1487



Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 794



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Article 49B Human Relations Commission: Discrimination in Employment, Section 16 (Unlawful Employment Practices)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-421 (Safe Schools Reporting Act of 2005)



COMAR 13A.04.05 (Education that is Multicultural)



COMAR 13A.08.01.15 (Reporting Delinquent Acts)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: May 28, 1980
