
I. Policy Statement



It is the responsibility of the Howard County Public School System(HCPSS) to provide a safe, engaging and supportive school environment for all students. The Board of Education affirms its position that all children and vulnerable adults have the right to be protected from abuse and neglect. The Board therefore acknowledges the necessity for the school system to ensure that employees, contractors, and volunteers are able to recognize and report instances of abuse and neglect of children and vulnerable adult students. The Board further acknowledges the necessity for the school system to collaborate with child and adult protective service agencies, both private and governmental.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines and monitoring requirements for ensuring that employees, contractors, and volunteers, working in their professional capacities, recognize and report abuse and neglect of children and vulnerable adult students in accordance with the Annotated Code of Maryland as well as state and local mandates.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Target Population


This policy exists to protect all children and vulnerable adult students who come to the attention of employees, contractors, and volunteers when working in their professional capacity.


V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will:




Ensure that all employees, contractors, and volunteers report suspected abuse and neglect in accordance with the standards set forth herein.



Ensure that the school system has procedures to protect the identity of persons reporting abuse and neglect of children and vulnerable adults.



Ensure that investigations of employees, contractors, and volunteers are conducted in accordance with this policy and the Memorandum of Understanding.



Provide annual notification to employees, contractors, volunteers, students, and families of this policy.



Designate employees to conduct investigations involving allegations against employees, contractors, and volunteers in accordance with Standards IV.F.2., IV.F.3., and IV.G.1.d.



Designate an employee to serve as the custodian of the file regarding school system employee records. This person will review and maintain the information on school system employees, contractors, and volunteers, of any status, who become the subject of investigations involving abuse and neglect, or who fail to report abuse or neglect. The custodian of the file will provide statistical data to the Office of Student Services for the annual report.



Ensure that, where appropriate, actions to decertify a certificated employee, or to revoke the license of a licensed employee, will be initiated.



Report to the Board regarding the status and disposition of all cases of allegations of abuse or neglect against employees, contractors, and volunteers, as well as any disciplinary action taken as a result of failure to report.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




COMAR 13.A.08.01.13, Questioning on School Premises



COMAR 13A.12.05, Suspensions and Revocations of Certification



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 3-601, Child Abuse, and Section 3-602, Sexual Abuse of a Minor



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 3-604, Abuse or Neglect of a Vulnerable Adult in the First Degree



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 6-202, Suspension or Dismissal of Teachers, Principals and Other Professional Personnel



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, Title 5, Subtitle 7, Child Abuse and Neglect



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, Title 14, Subtitle 3, Investigative Provisions (Vulnerable Adults)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Health General Article, Title 4, Subtitle 3, Confidentiality of Medical Records, Section 306



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Human Services Article, Section 1-202 and 1-203, Confidentiality and Disclosure of Information Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 11, 1977
