
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, nurturing, and supportive school climate. The Board believes that fostering a school climate in which individuals are valued, and their safety and rights are protected, is essential to its mission.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to prohibit any behaviors that interfere with safe and supportive school climates and to describe the HCPSS approach to maintaining safe and supportive school climates.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





All students, employees, parents, and third parties of the HCPSS will contribute to the development and implementation of a safe and supportive school climate.



The Board will review and approve the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct annually.



Behaviors identified in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct and other related policies, will be communicated to all students, employees, parents, and third parties annually.



It is a violation of this policy to make a threat against the physical, emotional, mental, or academic well-being of students or employees, and it will be addressed through the application of the appropriate Board policy and the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



The HCPSS will utilized a multifaceted approach to maintain a safe and supportive school climate to include the following:




Threat assessment teams for the regular assessment and intervention, including diversion and de-escalation, if an individual exhibits behavior that may pose a threat to school safety.



The timely referral of information to appropriate law enforcement and for evaluation, services (including mental health services), or treatment when appropriate.



The use of school resources officers (SROs) and other adequate law enforcement coverage throughout HCPSS.



Regular safety evaluations of each HCPSS school.



Regular school emergency drills at each HCPSS school.



An HCPSS System-Level Emergency Operations Plan (EOP), School-Specific EOPs, and Non-School Facility EOPs.



Utilizing restorative practices through HCPSS, including before, during, and after threats and emergencies.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will establish a behavior threat assessment team(s) to implement a process for identifying, assessing and intervening with individuals whose behavior may pose a threat to the safety of a school or the school system.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that students, employees, parents, and third parties are notified of the provisions of this policy annually.



The Superintendent/designee or school-based administrator will take action in response to a violation of this policy in accordance with Policy 9200 Student Discipline, the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct, the HCPSS Procedures for the Threat Management Process, Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline, and any other applicable policies.



Principals will disseminate information on the standards and penalties of this policy at their schools annually.



All students, employees, parents, and third parties will maintain a safe and supportive school climate.



The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, the Department of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being, and the Office of Safety and Security will coordinate for a multi-faceted approach to maintain safe and supportive school climates.



The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, the Department of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being, and the Office of Safety and Security will annually provide a safe and supportive school climate implementation findings report to the Board.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U. S. C., Sec. 1681



Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U. S. C., Sec 601 and Sec. 2000e.2



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-304.1 (Positive Behavioral Supports and Interventions).



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-305 (Suspensions and Expulsions).



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-424 (Reporting Incidents of Harassment Against Students).



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-424.1 (Model Policy Prohibiting Bullying, Harassment and Intimidation).



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-424.3 (Bullying, Harassment and Intimidation Policy).



COMAR 13A.01.04.03, School Safety



COMAR 13A.08.01.11, Disciplinary Action



COMAR 13A.08.04.03, Student Behavior Interventions



Maryland Safe to Learn Act of 2018




B. Other Board Policies





Policy 1000 Civility



Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination



Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct



Policy 1030 Child Abuse and Neglect



Policy 1050 Alcohol, Drug, and Tobacco Free Environment



Policy 1060 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, and Intimidation



Policy 2070 Ethics



Policy 3010 Emergency Preparedness and Response



Policy 3020 Trespassing or Willful Disturbance



Policy 5200 Student Transportation



Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline



Policy 7040 Alcohol Use by Employees



Policy 7050 Use of Drugs and Drug Paraphernalia By Employees



Policy 9020 Students’ Rights and Responsibilities



Policy 9030 School-Sponsored Publications and Productions



Policy 9090 Wellness Through Nutrition and Physical Activity



Policy 9200 Student Discipline



Policy 9210 Student Dress Code



Policy 9230 Alcohol, Other Drugs, Prescription Medication and Over-the-Counter Products



Policy 9250 Weapons



Policy 9260 Student Search and Seizure



Policy 9270 Student Assault and/or Battery on Employees



Policy 9280 School Use of Community or Reportable Offenses



Policy 9290 Gangs, Gang Activity, and Similar Destructive or Delinquent Group Behavior




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 22, 1992
