
I. Notifications





The Superintendent/designee and school administrators will inform all students, employees, and the public annually, and as deemed necessary, of the provisions of this policy in order to maintain an alcohol, drug and tobacco free environment.


All Students will be notified of the provisions of this policy in writing and will be asked to acknowledge receipt of such notification. School-based administrators will monitor the acknowledgment of such notification.


II. Student Well-Being, Support, and Intervention



The HCPSS will promptly respond when there is knowledge of alcohol, drug, and/or tobacco use in its school environment. Prior to any disciplinary action, the HCPSS will respond to alcohol, drug, and/or tobacco use, distribution, and/or possession by providing supportive actions to ensure that learning opportunities exist for students to understand the infraction, its consequences, and choices they have to navigate through the root causes of the concern.


III. Investigation





All HCPSS employees are required to report immediately if a student is suspected of being under the influence or suspected drug-induced illness to the school administrator. The school administrator will escort the student to the health room. If appropriate, health services staff will determine whether to administer an HCPSS screening assessment. This assessment can be started by the school health assistance but must be completed by a registered nurse. Nurses and health assistants will follow the HCPSS-SAP procedures.



A school administrator will promptly investigate any alleged violation of this policy.



HCPSS employees have the responsibility for taking appropriate actions when a student is involved in a situation that disrupts the learning environment of a school. When determining the plan of support and appropriate consequences, they will take the following into consideration:




The severity of the incident.



A student’s previous violations and/or responses for the same or a related offense.



Whether the offense interfered with the rights/privileges/responsibilities/property of others.



Whether the offense posed a threat to the health or safety of others.



Whether the student has an Individualized Education Plan (IEP), 504 Plan, or Behavioral Intervention Plan.



The logical relationship between the offense and the response.



The age-appropriateness of the consequence.



Any specific responses articulated in Board of Education policy.




IV. Tobacco and/or Nicotine Products - Student Consequences



Possession and/or Use or Intent to Distribute


V. Alcohol, Drugs, and Prescription Medication - Student Consequences





Possession and/or Use of Alcohol, Drugs and/or Drug Paraphernalia (including Constructive Possession)




A Level 3-5 response as defined in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct will be applied. When determining the level response, school administrators should prioritize student well-being, supports, and interventions over exclusionary practices.



A school administrator may consider the assignment of a lesser consequence than suspension if the paraphernalia did not contain any residue of drugs.



Participation in a parent/student conference with a school administrator prior to returning from suspension will occur.



Mandatory assessment, counseling and/or education through a licensed addictions program or a state-certified addictions counselor will occur. The student must provide documentation from the provider of their appointment or participation in the assessment during the period of suspension. Failure to provide such documentation may result in progressive discipline in accordance with the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



Referral to SST for follow-up contact with the student and parent, including the monitoring of the student’s participation in the mandatory assessment, as well as their appointment or continued participation in and/or satisfactory completion of any prescribed treatment plan. A student who fails to provide documentation of their continued participation in or completion of a prescribed treatment plan is subject to progressive discipline.




VI. Over-the-Counter Medication - Student Consequences





Possession and/or Use of Over-the-Counter Medication




Level 1-3 response as defined in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct. When determining the level response, school administrators should prioritize student well-being, supports, and interventions over exclusionary practices.



A school administrator will consider:




The over-the-counter medication can be clearly identified (e.g., is in a pharmacy or manufacturer-labeled container/original packaging); and



The school administrator can verify that the student does in fact have a current prescription for the medication or that the student’s parent has authorized the use of the over-the-counter product medication; and



The over-the-counter medication, if used by the student, was taken in accordance with guidelines recommended by the manufacturer of the over-the-counter medication. School administrators may contact Poison Control or the Health Services Office with questions regarding the identification, appropriate use and potential effects of over-the-counter medications.




VII. Employee Consequences



All employees suspected of violation of this policy will receive due process in accordance with Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline, Policy 7040 Alcohol Use by Employees, and Policy 7050 Use of Drugs, and Drug Paraphernalia by Employees. In addition, they will be referred to seek assistance from employee guidance resources.


VIII. Other Individuals Consequences



Other individuals, including those not employed with the HCPSS, found to be in violation of this policy will be subject to the following:


IX. Organizations Consequences



Organizations that lease school buildings or grounds will be informed that their contract will be at risk of non-renewal if their users do not comply with Board policy.


X. Confidentiality of Student Records



Provisions to protect student rights to confidentiality of information regarding their use of alcohol, drugs, over-the-counter medication, tobacco, and electronic smoking devices include:


XI. Definitions



Within the context of these procedures, the following definitions apply:


XII. Monitoring



Policy 1050 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


XIII. History



ADOPTED: June 24, 1993
