
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to promoting and providing an alcohol, drug, and tobacco free academic environment for all students that maintains appropriate safeguards for the administration of prescription medication and over-the-counter medication. The Board of Education of Howard County believes that collaboration with parents and the larger community is essential to its success in providing this safe and nurturing environment.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish the educational and disciplinary parameters needed to maintain an alcohol, drug, and tobacco free environment.


III. Standards





General




The use, sale, promotion, or distributionof any tobacco product, cigarette rolling papers, or electronic smoking devices by students, HCPSS employees, and visitorsis prohibited at all times and on all property owned, leased, or under the control or sponsored by HCPSS at all times. This includes, but is not limited to indoor and outdoor grounds, walkways and sidewalks, parking lots, buses, school system vehicles, school trips, and virtual classrooms. The prohibition extends to the entire time individuals attend the activity, including during transport. Tobacco products possessed by HCPSS employees should not be visible to students.



The use, sale, promotion, possession,(including constructive possession), or distribution of alcohol or drugs, by students, HCPSS employees, and visitors, on school property or at school-related activities is prohibited at all times.



Prescription medication and over-the-counter medication for students require written medication orders from a licensed prescriber and are to be administered in accordance with medication administration guidelines. (Consult the Howard County Public Schools Health Services Manual for procedures and exceptions).




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee and school administrators will inform students, parents, employees, and the public that school buildings and school properties are alcohol, drug, and tobacco free and will communicate the provisions of this policy on an annual basis.



The Superintendent/designee will regularly monitor the health education program regarding the use, abuse, and misuse of alcohol, drugs, and tobacco to help students focus on health prevention concepts and to practice life skills in a safe and supportive environment.



The Superintendent/designee and administrators will implement this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will provide a report annually to the Board reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of this policy and SAP procedures, as well as an accounting of policy violations.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation
of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Law Article, Sections 5-401 through 5-406,Dangerous Substances, Prescriptions, and Other Substances



Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Law Article, Section 10-107 (Distribution of tobacco product or paraphernalia to minor) and Section 10-108 (Possession of tobacco product by minor; use of false identification)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article:



Section 6-108 (School Employees - Immunity from Civil Liability);



Section 7-412 (Preservation of Rights of Student Seeking to Overcome Drug Abuse);



Section 7-411 (Drug Education Program);



Section 7-413 (Alcohol Abuse Program);



Section 7-305 (Suspension and Expulsion);



Section 7-308 (Searches of Students and Schools);



Section 26-103 (Drinking or Possessing Intoxicating Beverages on School Premises)



COMAR 13A.02.04, Tobacco-Free School Environment



COMAR 13A.08.01.08 Substance Use or Distribution



COMAR 13A.08.01.11 Disciplinary Action



COMAR 13A.08.01.15 Reporting Delinquent Acts



Maryland Clean Indoor Air Act, MD. Annotated Code, Health-General Article, Section 24-501, et seq.



Howard County Code of Ordinances, Section 12-600, et seq., Smoking in Public Places




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 24, 1993
