
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County believes that educational equity is an inherent human right and must shape all school system policies, procedures, and practices. The Board prioritizes educational equity by identifying and removing institutional barriers and other factors that obstruct access and opportunity to a high quality education for all students. The Board recognizes that social identifiers and societal factors influence student outcomes. HCPSS endeavors to provide students with academic and non-academic supports specific to students so all students meet their highest potential. The Board believes it is the shared responsibility of the Board, employees, parents, community stakeholders, and students to work towards educational equity.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to achieve educational equity by establishing expectations related to the identification and elimination of disparities in education outcomes.


III. Standards





Academic Achievement and Growth


Access to a culturally responsive and relevant curriculum that provides meaningful and dynamic school experiences are essential to postsecondary success. In order to actualize this priority, the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) will:


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will oversee the development of system-wide objectives, activities, and track progress towards measurable targets to achieve educational equity. Superintendent/designee will track and record progress toward measureable targets to achieve educational equity. At least one goal will focus on racial equity.



The Superintendent/designee will obtain student, parent, and community feedback on setting the measurable objectives for achieving educational equity annually.



The Superintendent/designee will provide to the Board data on educational equity through information items, memorandums, and Board reports that include disaggregated data.



The Superintendent/ designee will oversee the reporting of equity related goals and data to the public in the aggregate by federally accountable student groups, gender, disability, grade and school in a searchable and analyzable format.



The Superintendent/designee will oversee the development of a Local Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) Consolidated Strategic Plan. The plan includes a needs assessment that identifies areas of focus, provides the ESSA equity performance accountability measures, and further outlines implementation strategies that address educational equity.



The Superintendent/designee will propose an annual budget that allocates resources in a manner that promotes the principles of education equity. The equity information will be part of each program budget where applicable and include an analysis of resources that address disparities in education outcomes.



The Department of Information Technology will collaborate with HCPSS offices to maintain a longitudinal data system that contains disaggregated student data across academics, discipline, and school climate for district, program, and school analysis of educational equity.



The Department of Curriculum and Instruction will develop a culturally responsive curriculum that is inclusive and reflective of perspectives which have been excluded or minimized historically and currently.  Professional learning will be provided to educators to build the capacity to understand and deliver culturally proficient instruction.



The Office of Human Resources will develop recruitment, promotion, employment, and retention procedures consistent with the Workforce Diversity and Inclusion Plan.



The Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (ODEI) will provide training and development aligned to its educational equity goals through district-level and school-based level professional learning opportunities.



HCPSS principals will include students, parents, families and community members, in decision-making groups that impact school culture, climate, and the academic success of students as often as  possible.



Through professional learning, all employees will engage in self-reflective practices aligned to HCPSS educational equity goals.



The Superintendent’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Advisory Group will provide the Superintendent/designee with a review of the educational equity goals and an assessment of educational equity in HCPSS annually.



The Superintendent/designee will review this policy at least every three years and recommend it for revision as necessary.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Public Law 101-336, July 26, 1990



Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.01.06.00 Educational Equity Authority



Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA) 20 U.S.C. §6301



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. 1400-1487




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 8, 2020
