
I. Funding and Allocation of Resources





The Superintendent/designee will recommend priorities and develop procedures for differentiating school funding, The District Level School Support Team (SST) will identify and allocate resources based on, but not limited to:




Academic outcomes aligned with the federally accountable student groups.



Mental health and behavioral needs.




II. Access and Opportunity




See June 5, 2019 Board Report, Equity: Responding to Performance and Opportunity Gaps in HCPSS, for a detailed examination of instructional strategies and interventions supporting access and opportunity.


III. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Supports





The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (ODEI) will coordinate systemic planning, development, and execution of professional learning related to HCPSS educational equity goals. The professional learning will be in collaboration with HCPSS divisions. The professional learning will cover such areas as anti-bias, anti-racism, racial equity, cultural proficiency and responsiveness, disability acceptance, equity facilitation and leadership, equity focused leadership for district and site-based leaders, microaggressions, restorative justice practices, trauma-informed/healing-centered practices, student voice, and other diversity, equity, and inclusion-related professional development.



The ODEI will consult with HCPSS divisions and offices on initiatives and programs to support HCPSS educational equity goals.



The ODEI will work collaboratively with HCPSS offices to intentionally uplift diverse role models, so that all students see themselves and the global society represented.



The ODEI will partner with parent and community organizations and government agencies to support mutual equity goals.



Principals will designate a Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Liaison to lead school-based professional learning, support school improvement planning, and work with the ODEI on district-level initiatives.




IV. Data Reporting and Accountability





SST will establish/maintain a school improvement planning process that requires school improvement teams to:




Analyze trends within disaggregated student data, which may include (but not be limited to):




Gap analysis to identify and address any emergent inequitable educational outcomes.



Disproportionality in discipline practices.



Under representation in advanced course enrollment.



Progress towards increasing graduation rates for all students.



Disproportionality in special education identification rates.



Staff professional development needs.




V. Addressing Concerns and Non-Compliance





Individuals who have been subjected to or observe behaviors that are a violation of this policy are first encouraged to respectfully share the concern/issue with the person or persons directly involved, in a manner that reflects a restorative approach.



If the matter is not resolved using the process described above in Section V.A. individuals may follow the Formal Parent Concern Form & Process and/or utilize the HCPSS policies and procedures that may relate, including the following:




Policies




Policy 1000 Civility



Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination



Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct



Policy 1040 Safe and Supportive Schools



Policy 1060 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, and Intimidation



Policy 2030 Ombudsman



Policy 2070 Ethics



Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline



Policy 9020 Students’ Rights and Responsibilities



Policy 9200 Student Discipline




VI.  Monitoring



Policy 1080 implementation procedures will be overseen by The Division of Human Resources and Professional Development.


VII. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 8, 2020
