
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County, with the advice of the Superintendent, sets goals and expectations for the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) through the creation, revision, and adoption of policies. These policies guide the development and implementation of educational programs and the management of system operations. Board policies are aligned with the HCPSS mission and goals, as well as applicable federal, state, and local laws. The Board believes that sound policy decisions require the consideration of employee recommendations and community input.


II. Purpose



This policy provides a uniform and consistent format for Board policies and establishes comprehensive processes by which policies are monitored, reviewed, developed, revised, and modified.


III. Standards





Initiating Policy Development, Revision, or Modification
Policy development, revision, or modification can be initiated in any of the following ways:




By majority vote of the Board, following the recommendation of one or more Board members.



By the Superintendent subsequent to regular policy monitoring and maintenance activities (see Section B.2. below).



By school system employees, upon approval by the Superintendent/designee, in accordance with procedures established by the Superintendent (see Implementation Procedures, Section II.B.).




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will annually prepare and present a list of proposed policy development, revision, and modification.



The Superintendent/designee is authorized to develop and issue implementation procedures to execute Board policies when applicable.



The Superintendent/designee will publish and maintain HCPSS Policies and ensure that information is made available to all employees, employee associations, students, and the community regarding newly developed, revised, or modified Board policies and implementation procedures.



The Superintendent/designee will develop a process to ensure the continuous monitoring of how policies are meeting their stated goals and their implementation including, as appropriate, the submission of reports to the Board that link data sources to policy implementation.




V. Delegation of Authority





The Superintendent is directed to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.



The Superintendent is authorized to suspend a Board policy in circumstances in which implementation of the policy is reasonably believed to compromise the health, safety, or welfare of students, employees, or others.




If the Superintendent acts to suspend a Board policy, the rationale for the suspension will be provided to the Board at its next regular meeting.



The suspension will not extend beyond the date of the meeting at which the rationale is provided unless its continuation is approved by the Board.



The Board will approve the reinstatement of the suspended policy based on the recommendation of the Superintendent.




VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal


The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง4-108(3) and (4)


VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 22, 2004
