
I. General





The Superintendent/designee will coordinate Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) policy development, revision, and modification processes. This includes the development, review, and presentation of proposals for policy and implementation procedures to be considered by the Board of Education of Howard County.



Accountability for the substantive components and content of policy and implementation procedure proposals lies with the designated HCPSS content leads, Policy Advisory Committee chairs, committee members, and appropriate department administrators. All proposals are presented to the Superintendent’s Cabinet for examination and comment.



The Superintendent will designate a Superintendent’s Standing Policy Group (SSPG), which includes at least one member from each division, to review the oldest policies on an annual basis. This committee will recommend what action, if any, will be taken on each policy.




II. Policy Development, Revision, and Modification Proposal Development





Requests for policy development, revision, or modification from the Board will be directed to the Superintendent/designee, who will coordinate employee preparation of a draft policy language.



Development, revision, or modification of a policy or implementation procedures proposal may be initiated by an administrator or supervisor with the approval of the Superintendent/designee.



The Superintendent/designee may contact an administrator or supervisor to request that a policy on a particular topic be developed, revised, or modified.



For those policies deemed by the SSPG as needing comprehensive revision:




The Superintendent/designee will submit a Policy Advisory Committee Charter to the Board that:




Explains the purpose for development or revision of the policy.



Includes members of the Policy Advisory Committee.



Identifies existing data sources to guide policy development and revision as appropriate.



Provides supporting rationale.




III. Implementation Procedures





If necessary, implementation procedures for a new Board policy will be developed concurrent with that policy.



Implementation procedures for a policy under revision will be evaluated and updated as part of the policy revision process.



All implementation procedures will include a responsibilities section to note the Division or Office responsible for overseeing that the procedures are being executed as intended.



After considering input from Cabinet, the Superintendent will adopt the updated implementation procedures. Implementation procedures recommended by the Superintendent will be submitted to the Board concurrent with the corresponding draft policy.



Implementation procedures adopted by the Superintendent that are revised without changes to a corresponding policy will be provided to the Board as an information item at a regularly scheduled Board meeting.



Information on revisions to implementation procedures will be provided to affected stakeholders by the appropriate administrator or supervisor.




IV. Responsibilities



These implementation procedures will be overseen by the Office of Grants, Policy, and Strategy.


V. History



ADOPTED: January 22, 2004
