
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) believes that public schools are strengthened when communities are actively engaged in the education process. In support of this belief, the Board is committed to providing multiple opportunities for responsible community participation in the operation of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). Advisory committees provide one means to achieve this objective and allow interested community members to become more effectively involved in the educational process.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to sustain the Community Advisory Council (CAC) and to provide guidelines for other advisory committees to the Board.


III. Standards





Community Advisory Council (CAC)




The CAC, in accordance with its bylaws, will consider matters pertinent to public education and present concerns and recommendations to the Board for consideration and possible action. The CAC will also respond to requests from the Board for research and recommendations.



The CAC will have regular appointments at meetings of the Board and will present a formal report to the Board at the end of each school year.




All reports of the CAC will be presented directly to the Board by the CAC chair/designee.



Informational copies of all written reports will be provided to the Superintendent and appropriate HCPSS employees.




IV. Responsibilities



Advisory committees to the Board will comply with the provisions of the Maryland Open Meetings Act.


V. Delegation of Authority



Advisory committees to the Board are authorized to establish bylaws or operating procedures for the conduct of their organizational functions, which are subject to review by the Board.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-112



Md. Ann. Code, General Provisions Article, Sections 3-101, et seq.




VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 13, 1990
