
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education recognizes that the success of a public school system is dependent upon citizens having the highest trust in their public officials and employees. The Board expects its employees to conduct themselves in a trustworthy and ethical manner at all times in the performance of their duties and responsibilities. Accordingly, citizens have a right to be assured that the Board, the Superintendent, and Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees will promote a culture of impartiality, accountability, and integrity in the performance of duties and responsibilities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to support the Ethics Regulations by articulating the importance of ethical conduct by Board members, employees, and advisory committee members of the HCPSS, to establish standards of ethical conduct, and to publicize those standards to the school community.


III. Standards





All Board members, employees, and advisory committee members will conduct their duties and responsibilities, while in the employ of the HCPSS, in an ethical manner that reflects and exemplifies their position of public trust.



All Board members, employees, and advisory committee members will promote a culture of impartiality, accountability, and integrity in the performance of duties and responsibilities.



HCPSS Board members, employees, and advisory committee members will endeavor to avoid any actions creating the appearance that they are violating the HCPSS policy, the law, or the ethical standards promulgated in Policy 2070 Ethics or the Ethics Regulations.



All Board members, employees, and advisory committee members will report any violation of Policy 2070 Ethics or the Ethics Regulations to the Ethics Panel.



It is the responsibility of all Board members, employees, and advisory committee members to be alert for any indications of fraud and abuse involving HCPSS funds or property. The following procedures will be followed for all Board members, employees, advisory committee members, and residents reporting fraud and/or abuse:




Notification




Individuals will use the steps below for reporting fraud and/or abuse. However, when anonymity is a priority, individuals may choose to use the Fraud Hotline if available.




Any individual who has knowledge of an occurrence of fraud and/or abuse, or has reason to suspect that such an event has occurred by an employee, will notify the employee’s immediate supervisor. If there is reason to believe that this supervisor may be involved, the employee will instead notify his/her supervisor’s supervisor. The supervisor will immediately notify the Board of Education’s Internal Auditor. As appropriate, the supervisor will also notify the, division chiefs and the Director of Security, Emergency Preparedness and Response.



Any individual who has knowledge of an occurrence of fraud and/or abuse or has reason to suspect that such an event has occurred, by a member of the Board or an advisory committee member, will immediately notify the Board Chair. If the allegation concerns the Board Chair the report will be made to the Vice Chair.




IV. Responsibilities





Legal counsel will serve as liaison to the HCPSS Ethics Panel and ensure that the appropriate reports, opinions, findings and recommendations are provided to the Board in a timely manner.



Members of the Ethics Panel will abide by the duties, responsibilities, and rules of the Ethics Regulations.



The Office of Human Resources will ensure that all new Board members and employees receive a copy of Policy 2070 Ethics and the Ethics Regulations.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Howard County Public School System Ethics Regulations



The Maryland Open Meetings Act



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Article 33, 26-1 et seq.



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Election Law Article, Title 10 Subtitle 1



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Election Law Article, Title 13 Subtitle 2



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Par. 1-101(e)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 4, 2010
