
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the diversity of traditions represented among the staff and students of the Howard County Public School System(HCPSS) and the value such diversity adds to the educational program. The Board respects the religious practices and observances of students and employees and is committed to providing reasonable accommodations for religious obligations.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to set forth provisions concerning the exercise and expression of religious practices and observances by students and employees in the HCPSS.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





A student absence for observation of a religious holiday is considered a lawful absence subject to the provisions of Policy 9010 Attendance.



A student with a documented religious obligation that cannot be fulfilled except during the school day may receive a reasonable accommodation to meet that obligation.



The essential curriculum, as defined by COMAR, cannot be waived for religious reasons except as provided in Maryland law and regulation.



Pursuant to the Federal Equal Access Act, students in secondary schools may form religious clubs. Student-initiated religious clubs will not be sponsored by schools but will be afforded the same treatment as other extra-curricular student groups that meet during non-instructional time.



When students are not engaged in instruction or school-related activities, they may voluntarily pray individually or in groups and discuss their religious views, as long as such behavior is not disruptive or coercive.



Within the provisions of Policy 9210 Student Dress Code, students may wear attire as an expression of their religious practice.



School officials will not mandate or organize prayer at graduation, nor organize religious baccalaureate ceremonies. If a school generally opens its facilities to private groups, it must make its facilities available on the same terms to organizers of privately sponsored religious baccalaureate services. A school will not extend preferential treatment to baccalaureate ceremonies and will disclaim official endorsement of such ceremonies.



Regular morning exercises at schools may include a daily moment of silence, pursuant to state law.



Employee absence due to observance of a religious holiday or fulfillment of a documented religious obligation when schools and/or offices are open will follow procedures in Policy 7110 Annual Leave for Administrative Personnel, and the appropriate negotiated agreement.



As government employees, employees of the HCPSS are subject to the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment and thus required to be neutral concerning religion whether carrying out their duties or exercising their rights related to voluntary religious practices and freedom of speech.



The contents of this policy will be communicated annually to all students, parents, employees, and the community.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/Designee will disseminate the standards in this policy to all students, employees, and parents.



The Superintendent/Designee will determine whether a system of belief or worship is recognized as a religion for the purposes of this policy.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References





Legal




United States Constitution as Amended, First Amendment



Equal Access Act, (20 U.S.C. § 4071-74)



United States Internal Revenue Code (26 USC Section 501(c) (3)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-103 (Required School Days and Holidays)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-104 (Daily Period of Silent Meditation)



COMAR 13A.01.04.03, School Safety



COMAR 13A.04.18.01 Comprehensive Health Education Instructional Programs for Grades Prekindergarten–12



COMAR 13A.08.01.03, Lawful Absence



COMAR 13A.08.01.04, Unlawful Absence



COMAR 13A.08.01.05, Student Attendance Policy



COMAR 13A.08.01.09, Student Organizations




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 10, 1970
