
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education encourages the participation of families and the community in public schools. The Board further encourages the use of school facilities for community purposes when such use does not interfere with the scheduled school program. The Board recognizes its primary responsibility to provide a safe and nurturing educational and work environment, and its legal authority to act when anyone willfully disturbs or otherwise prevents the orderly conduct of school system instruction, administration or activities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to define the circumstances and conditions under which individuals are allowed access to school property, to define the circumstances and conditions under which access may be denied, to define the procedures for denying future access, and to establish the procedures for responding to an incident of trespassing or willful disturbance.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





An authorized employee may deny access to HCPSS property to any person who:




Is not a bona fide, currently registered student at the property or an HCPSS employee assigned to the property and who does not have lawful business to pursue at the site; or



Is a bona fide, currently registered student at the school and has been suspended or expelled from the property, for the duration of the suspension or expulsion; or



Is an employee or student who has been denied access to the property as a result of administrative action; or



Creates a willful disturbance.




V. Responsibilities





Building administrators will establish procedures for admitting only authorized users to school property.



Building administrators will investigate instances of alleged violations of this policy and take appropriate action, except when it may be appropriate to deny access to multiple properties, in which case the Superintendent/designee will be responsible.



Building administrators will issue denial-of-access letters, maintain a file of issued letters, and forward copies of all letters to the Superintendent/designee.



The Superintendent/designee will maintain a list of all persons who have received denial-of-access letters and disseminate such information as appropriate.



The Superintendent/designee will serve as the liaison to the HCDP in matters related to the implementation of this policy.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Sections 26-101 and 26-102



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 6-409



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 27-643(b)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: August 23, 1990
