
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to managing and maintaining a uniform, systemwide records management program that communicates expectations regarding the creation, maintenance, retention, and disposition of Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) records. The Board recognizes that effective records management provides significant benefits to HCPSS, including the efficient and timely retrieval of records, the secure disposition of records, the preservation of historical and vital records, the promotion of transparency, and the protection of the legal rights of students, HCPSS employees, the community, and the government.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this records management policy is to establish systemwide standards and procedures as well as provide guidance to schools and administrative offices regarding the maintenance, retention, and disposition of records.


III. Standards





HCPSS school system officials are responsible for records in their custody which are the property of HCPSS.



HCPSS will manage and maintain a records management program that aligns with State and federal laws and regulations.



To manage and maintain a records management program, HCPSS will:




Establish uniform, systemwide guidance and procedures for the creation, maintenance, use, and disposition of HCPSS records;



Provide information to support decision making and to respond to inquiries from internal and external sources in a timely manner;



Develop and maintain State approved RIDS in accordance with State and federal laws. This includes changes in the legal retention of records, new record series being created, and other changes that may affect the retention of HCPSS records;



Identify, preserve, and protect vital records necessary to continue operations in an emergency;



Identify and transfer any records in the custody of HCPSS school system officials to the appropriate records custodian, or the person assuming responsibility for the work when individuals have a change in employment status or role in the HCPSS;



Provide guidance and procedures for storing inactive records in off-site records facilities;



Provide guidance and procedures for storing inactive records in secure locations with HCPSS offices, departments, and schools;



Provide guidance and procedures for the destruction of inactive records that have met their retention and have no archival value;



Require annual records management training for all HCPSS Board members and school system officials as appropriate to their responsibilities; and



Review each office, department, and school’s current RIDS annually.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent will designate a RO to serve as liaison to the Howard County Records Management Division and to the Maryland State Archives.



The Superintendent/designee will develop and administer protocols related to the HCPSS records management program.



The Superintendent/designee will initiate appropriate action to recover records removed unlawfully or without authorization.



The RO will serve as the primary records management contact for all HCPSS records.



The RO will provide oversight, leadership, and management of the HCPSS records management activities in coordination with HCPSS officials, including records management training.



The RO will develop, review, maintain, and update the RIDS in accordance with State and federal laws for HCPSS records.



The RO will submit a Certificate of Records Destruction Form to the Maryland State Archivist to allow the disposal of authorized records that have met their retention period.



Each HCPSS office, department, and school will identify an individual to serve as its records liaison. The records liaison will assist the RO in the coordination of records management activities.



HCPSS Board members and school system officials will:




Adhere to the records management program requirements and RIDS concerning the HCPSS records they create, use, maintain, and destroy;



Adhere to the RIDS for records retention, unless a specific record is subject to litigation hold as defined, has been subpoenaed, or is the subject of a public information request pursuant to the MPIA;



Contact the HCPSS RO if records retention requirements have changed and need to be updated in the RIDS;



Report any actual or threatened unlawful removal, defacing, alteration, or destruction of records to the Superintendent/designee; and



Follow the systemwide procedures for the disposition of HCPSS records in accordance with the RIDS and the Maryland Student Records Manual.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)



Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)



Maryland Public Information Act, Annotated Code of Maryland, General Provisions Article, Title 4



COMAR 14.18.02 Records Retention and Disposition Schedules




VIII. History



ADOPTED:   October 4, 2011
