
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes its responsibility as stewards of student data to safeguard personally identifiable information throughout the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). As a local education agency, the Board also acknowledges that the appropriate processing of student data is necessary for the fulfillment of federal, State, and local legal requirements.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish standards and procedures for maintaining a student data governance and privacy program that aligns with federal, State, and local laws and regulations.


III. Standards





Student data will be:




Processed lawfully and in a transparent manner in relation to the student;



Collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes, and not further processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes;



Adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for which they are processed;



Accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date;



Processed in a manner that provides for the appropriate privacy of the student data, including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and using appropriate technical or organizational data privacy controls; and



Processed according to the appropriate standards and procedures indicated in HCPSS Policy 3050 Records Management and HCPSS Policy 3040 Technology Security.




V. Responsibilities





All HCPSS Board members and school system officials will maintain the privacy of all student data by:




Following all approved data governance and privacy controls; and



Using only contracted essential digital tools or authorized supplemental digital tools with students for HCPSS-sanctioned activities.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits of the policy.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), 20 U.S.C. §6301



Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. §1232(g)



Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)



Maryland Personal Information Protection Act, Md. Code Com. Law § 4-3501 et seq.



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §4-131, Student Data Privacy Act of 2015



COMAR 13A.08.02. Student Records




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 7, 2018
