
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County encourages the attainment of external funding from federal, state, or private entities that are aligned with the values and key strategies of the Howard County Public School System(HCPSS). The Board, in its commitment to excellence in teaching and learning, advocates for the pursuit of outside funding in the form of grants to support existing programs which seek to enhance teaching and student learning or grants for research and development of new programs.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines for seeking and administering grants.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Board Notification and Approval of Grant Funds




The Board will approve the following prior to the acceptance of funds:




Grant awards for amounts equal to or above $100,000.



Grant awards that require the processing and/or sharing of HCPSS student data with an entity outside of the HCPSS, except for those that are required by state and federal regulations, per Policy 3060 Student Data Governance and Privacy.




V. Responsibilities





Grant applicants will complete the Intent to Submit a Grant Proposal form to the Superintendent/designee prior to applying for a grant for any award amount.



Grant managers will complete all reports required by the grant and maintain comprehensive records for a minimum of five years.



The Offices of Accounting and Budget will ensure compliant financial grant performance.



Principals or designated school-based administrators will submit an annual report to the Superintendent/designee of all grants awarded to the school during the fiscal year.



The Superintendent/designee will annually present a grant summary report for all grants received during the fiscal year to the Board.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent/designee is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง4-131




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 14, 2001
