
I. Dissemination of Information





The school principal will annually ensure that all HCPSS school-based employees and school-sponsored organizations are aware of the provisions of this policy and any subsequent updates.



Fundraising Event Applications will be made available to all schools and school-sponsored organizations.




II. Fundraising Requests





Any school-based employee, school, or school-sponsored organization wishing to raise funds must first file a completed Fundraising Event Application with the local committee at the appropriate school 30 days prior to the start of the fundraiser.



Information provided on the Fundraising Event Application at the time of the request will include, but is not limited to:




Name of the school



Name of the organization or HCPSS employee



Name and telephone number of a sponsor/contact person



Date of the request



Title, description, and requested starting and ending dates for the activity



Name of the approved vendor to be used (if applicable)



Anticipated income



Intended use of funds



Any use of student likeness or work



Extent to which there is a purchase of goods - or remaining goods (plans for any unsold inventory)



Facility use



Controls of collecting money



Sponsor Signature Block.




III. Fundraising Activities





School-based employees and school-sponsored organizations will plan and supervise all fundraising events that they sponsor. This includes but is not limited to fundraisers that are online.



School and school-sponsored groups will plan for, organize, and manage the dissemination/promotion of fundraiser information as well as the collection of funds generated by fundraising activities to the extent practical, to not conflict or disrupt instructional time, either directly or indirectly.



All funds collected and disbursed by schools and school-sponsored organizations will be administered through the school activity account in accordance with
Policy 4030 School Activity Funds
.



Information regarding fundraising activities which are not sponsored by the school, a school-related organization or the school system must clearly identify the sponsoring organization and comply with the guidelines outlined in
Policy 10010 Distribution and Display of Materials and Announcements
, in order for such literature to be distributed in schools.



If a fundraising activity involves the use of student artwork, permission must be obtained prior to its use.



The use of student image(s) is permissible when used as part of a media release or advertising, however, if the image(s) is to be used for monetary benefit, parent permission is required prior to its use.




IV. Reporting





Financial information on schools and school-sponsored organizations’ fundraisers will be maintained through the school activity funds and will comply with the provisions of
Policy 4030 School Activity Funds
.



All fundraisers held by a school or a school-sponsored organization must complete a Fundraiser Completion Report and provide it to the local committee and the principal’s secretary/high school bookkeeper.



Schools, programs and departments will report their fundraising activities annually to the Superintendent/designee.



Financial information on all system-wide and applicable school-based fundraising activities will be provided to the Board of Education annually.



Information on fundraising is available to the public.




V. Monitoring



Policy 4020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


VI. History



ADOPTED: March 14, 1991
