
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) expects that all funds provided to the Board for use by the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) for all goods and/or services will be expended and managed in the most ethical, effective, and efficient manner possible and that procurement activities will be carried out in compliance with applicable laws including, the Annotated Code of Maryland, Educational Article, §5-112.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish standard practices and procedures to create an efficient and effective purchasing program for the HCPSS and to establish a centralized purchasing function with vested authority to purchase goods and/or services necessary for the efficient operation of HCPSS.


III. Standards





Provisions of this policy will apply to all HCPSS funds, including but not limited to, school activity funds, grants, and monetary donations except as explicitly exempted in the policy.



Procurement of goods and/or services will:




Fall within the framework of budgetary limitations.



Be consistent with the educational goals and programs of the HCPSS.



Be made only after the Board has budgeted funds available.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will establish the acceptable procurement method and process for establishing contracts at the threshold levels set in this policy and implementation procedures.



The Superintendent/designee will establish manuals or other documentation to inform all HCPSS employees and community members of the appropriate expenditure of funds.



All HCPSS employees will follow this policy and implementation procedures and comply with Policy 2070 Ethics and HCPSS Ethics Regulations.



The Budget Office will ensure sufficient funding authority has been appropriated for the procurement of goods and/or services.



Responsibility for the performance of the contract will reside with the program manager in the office that requested the solicitation. The program manager will do the following:




Develop performance measures and liquidated damages (if necessary) that ensure the contract meets the needs of the system and aligns with the strategic call to action and are SMART goals.



Monitor contractor performance, including deliverables, milestones, and compliance with contractual requirements.



Complete a Contractor Performance/Evaluation Scorecard prior to any option renewals being issued by the Office of Purchasing. This requirement should at a minimum be done annually and submitted to the Office of Purchasing for recordkeeping.



Maintain accurate and up-to-date contract records, documentation, and correspondence.



Program Managers will act with integrity, impartiality, and transparency in all dealings with suppliers and stakeholders.



The Director of Procurement and Materials Management/designee will act as a liaison with the contracted party in the event that there are performance issues with the contract.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent/designee is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §4-131



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §5-112



Md. Ann. Code, Finance and Procurement Article, §11-203



Md. Ann. Code, Finance and Procurement Article, §14-301



Md. Ann. Code, State Finance and Procurement, §13-109




VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 3, 1968
