
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is responsible for ensuring the fiscal health of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). The general purpose of fund balance is to maintain a prudent level of financial resources to buffer the fiscal condition of the HCPSS against unanticipated circumstances, which includes revenue and expenditure volatility, so that the fiscal impacts to service delivery may be managed to the extent practicable. The Board is committed to a well-articulated fund balance policy that establishes the reasons and guidance for maintaining a fund balance amount that supports the financial health objectives of the Board. In governmental accounting, fund balance applies to governmental funds and net position applies to proprietary funds. It is the intent of the Board that the principles of sound fiscal planning and prudent stewardship of public funds apply to the managing fund balance and net position, as defined in this policy. To this extent, the fund balance policy represents the Board’s plan for maintaining a prudent level of resources to manage the school system’s fiscal health from unplanned circumstances and fiscal volatility balanced with consideration of efficient taxation, and it is the overarching value of this policy that the use of fund balance for recurring expenditures should be avoided, except in emergency situations.


II. Purpose



The purposes of this policy are the following:


III. Standards





Classification and Reporting of Fund Balance


The fund balance in each applicable fund will be classified according to the requirements of GASB Statement No. 54 and reported in the fiscal year-end financial report.  The financial statements will be classified in five components: Non-spendable Fund Balance, Restricted Fund Balance, Committed Fund Balance, Assigned Fund Balance, and Unassigned Fund Balance, as required by the GASB No. 54.


IV. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will ensure compliance with the standards of this policy.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to implement and monitor compliance with this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 5-101



Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 5-114



7.CFR 210.14 Resource Management




VIII. History




ADOPTED: March 9, 2006
