
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes that goods and materials may, over time, become obsolete, unsafe, or outdated. This policy will provide for the efficient disposal of Board property that has been deemed surplus, obsolete, unsafe, or of no further significant use to the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS). This policy does not apply to real property.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide the guidelines relating to the efficient disposal of Board property other than real property.


III. Standards





Board property deemed surplus must meet at least one of the following criteria:




It has been condemned for use by the health department or for safety reasons as determined by the Safety, Environment, and Risk Management office.



It is damaged or worn beyond economic repair.



It will be or has been replaced.



It is considered outdated or obsolete.




IV.  Responsibilities





The Office of Purchasing will ensure the disposal, re-utilization, or destruction of surplus Board property and may:




Make the property available for use by another division, department, or office of the school system



Trade the property in toward the purchase of an appropriate replacement



Sell the property for scrap directly through public sale



Donate the property with authorization from the Superintendent/designee



Discard or destroy the property as trash in compliance with any local, State, or federal requirements, e.g., hazardous materials.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง5-112



Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)



Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 26, 2002
