
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education recognizes that the foundation of any well-managed debt program is a comprehensive debt policy. The debt policy formalizes a binding commitment to full and timely repayment of all debt as a necessary element to entry into the capital markets. Adherence to a debt policy assists in assuring that the Howard County Public School System maintains a sound debt position and its credit quality is protected and enhanced.


II. Purpose



This policy sets forth the parameters and processes for issuing debt as well as managing outstanding debt. The scope of this policy is limited to lease obligations, financed purchases (previously referred to as capital leases), and subscription-based information technology arrangements (SBITAs) of the Board and does not include or envision debt incurred on the Board’s behalf by the State of Maryland or the Howard County Government.


III. Standards





Lease obligations, SBITAs, and management are entrusted to the Board and the Superintendent/designee.



The use of lease financing, financed purchases, and SBITAs may be used when economical and efficient, and permitted by law.



The Superintendent/designee will evaluate all funding sources, including grants, operating funds, capital funds, and any other possible sources prior to recommending contracts to the Board for lease financing, financed purchases, or SBITAs. If deemed appropriate, the Superintendent/designee will recommend a contract for Board approval. A report will be presented to the Board by the Superintendent/designee if the debt is greater than or equal to five million dollars, or the debt is greater than or equal to five years in maturity.



The source of repayment for debt will be an appropriation of the budget by the Board and may be secured by the underlying goods and/or services purchased. All debt will be issued on a tax-exempt basis and sourced via a Request for Proposal (RFP) or other acceptable lease or financing vehicles. All tax-exempt debt will comply with the United States Internal Revenue Service federal regulations and Maryland state law.



Debt limitation for lease obligations will be as follows:




For all proposed debt offerings, an identifiable source of repayment will be paramount to the decision to finance. The source of repayment will be of sufficient duration and annual amount as to fully liquidate the debt within the life of the secured asset. The identifiable source should further be clarified as coming from federal, state, local, or private sources.



Total debt outstanding at the time of issuance, is limited to six percent (6%) of the total of the current operating budget; debt service is limited to three percent (3%) of the total of the current operating budget. The only exception to this limitation is self-liquidating debt.




IV. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will ensure compliance with the standards of this policy.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-126



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 5-101



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 5-112




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 10, 2008
