
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes that all students need adequate, nourishing food to learn, grow, and maintain good health. The Board is committed to ensuring compliance with the requirements for the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Child Nutrition Program, the National School Lunch Program and the School Breakfast Program. The Board is also committed to preventing students from going hungry due to unpaid meal charges, protecting students from the stigma of lunch shaming, and protecting the financial stability of the school nutrition program.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide direction, clarity, and instruction, and to set guidelines for consistent practices when providing healthy and nutritious meals to students who have insufficient funds in their school meal accounts and collecting unpaid meal debt while maintaining the financial integrity of the food service program and the dignity of students and households. The policy will also comply with federal reporting requirements for the USDA Child Nutrition Program.


III. Standards





This policy and implementation procedures will address serving students with insufficient, delinquent, or negative meal account balances during the school day.



All students will be treated with dignity and confidentiality in the serving line regarding meal accounts.



No student will be denied a meal regardless of unpaid food service accounts.



Meals will not be taken away from a student after they are served.



Second meals and a la carte purchases are prepaid or cash only.



No second meals or a la carte purchases will be allowed if a student has a negative meal account balance.



All students who attend schools operating under the Community Eligibility Program (CEP) may have breakfast and lunch at no cost.



Any student transferring from a CEP school where meals are free, to a non-CEP school where meals are served based on student eligibility status, will have a 30-day grace period in free meal status to give them time to submit a Free and Reduced-Price Meals (FARMs) application.



HCPSS Food and Nutrition Services will make reasonable efforts to communicate with families when meal account balances are low or fall below zero and to resolve the matter of unpaid meal charges.



Where appropriate, families may be encouraged to apply for FARMs benefits for their children anytime during the school year.



Collection of meal charge balances owed at the end of the school year will follow HCPSS’s procedures on student fees, fines, and charges.



Adults, including HCPSS employees and non-HCPSS students will not be allowed to charge for a meal.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure compliance with this policy.



Parents will ensure payment of all meals provided to their child, including payments on negative balances.



HCPSS employees will treat all students with dignity and confidentiality regarding meal accounts.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Maryland State Department of Education Memorandum SM 48-16 – Unpaid Meal  Charges; Local Meal Policies; September 21, 2016.



USDA Memorandum SP 47-2016 – Unpaid Meal Charges: Clarification on Collection  of Delinquent Meal Payments; July 8, 2016.



USDA Memorandum SP 23-2017: Unpaid Meal Charges: Guidance and Q&A



USDA Memorandum SP 46-2016: Unpaid Meal Charges: Local Meal Charge Policies



USDA Memorandum SP 29-2017: 2017 Edition of Overcoming the Unpaid Meal Challenge: Proven Strategies from Our Nation’s Schools



Section 143 of the Healthy, Hungry-Free Kids Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-296;  December 13, 2010) entitled “Review of Local Policies and Meal Charges and  Provision of Alternate Meals.”




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 1, 2017
