
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes its responsibility to provide educational programs and services for all children residing in Howard County, and further recognizes its responsibility to provide a safe and healthy environment for students, employees, service providers, and volunteers. Because communicable diseases are one of the most common causes of student illness and absenteeism, preventing and reducing transmission of communicable diseases are recognized as essential responsibilities of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish regulations and procedures to aid HCPSS personnel in preventing and reducing transmission of communicable diseases among students, employees, service providers, and volunteers.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The HCPSS will work collaboratively with the Howard County Health Department (HCHD) to control outbreaks of communicable diseases in the school setting.



The HCPSS will implement surveillance and reporting procedures in collaboration with the HCHD.



The HCPSS will provide assistance to families to ensure students are in compliance with current immunization regulations from the Maryland Department of Health (MDH).



Students, employees, service providers, or volunteers suspected of/or showing symptoms of communicable disease will be case-managed in accordance with the MDH guidelines in consultation with the HCHD.



Information about individuals with a communicable disease must be maintained in accordance with HCPSS Policy 9050 Student Records and HCPSS Policy 7010 Personnel Records.




V. Responsibilities





The Office of Health Services and the Office of Safety and Security, in collaboration with the HCHD and other agencies, will comply with all applicable regulations and implementation procedures.



School administrators must have available and will follow the HCPSS exposure control plan.



School administrators and HCPSS supervisors will ensure that professional development occurs annually for all employees.



Employees, service providers, and volunteers will follow procedures mandated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Maryland Occupational Safety and Health (MOSH) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).



School administrators or designee will monitor student absenteeism and will report a ten percent absentee rate or suspected outbreaks to the Office of Health Services as soon as it occurs and subsequently on a daily basis.



The Health Services Coordinator and Specialists will continuously monitor absentee rates and will consult with the HCHD when there is an increase in the number of schools reporting high absentee rates of suspected outbreaks.



School administrators, in consultation with the Office of Health Services and the Office of Safety and Security, will communicate potential exposures to their school community.



School administrators will ensure, in collaboration with Health Services employees, that students are in compliance with current immunization regulations from the MDH.



The Health Services Coordinator and Specialists will review procedures for the prevention and control of communicable diseases at least annually and will revise the procedures as needed to ensure conformity with current medical practices.



Health Services employees are responsible for implementing the HCPSS Health Services procedures regarding communicable diseases.



School Health Services employees will maintain copies of theHealth Services Manual: Requirements and Procedures for School Health Services.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is directed to develop regulations and procedures based on guidelines published by the federal government through OSHA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the CDC, and those published by the MDH, and MOSH.


VII. References



A. Legal References




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article §7-401 to §7-403.1



Annotated Code of Maryland, Health – General Article 18-201, 18-202, 18-204, and 18-205



29 CFR 1910.1030 Occupational Safety and Health Act



COMAR 10.06.06 Communicable Disease Prevention



COMAR 10.06.01.03 Communicable Diseases



COMAR 10.06.04 Communicable Diseases



HB 306/SB 257. Interstate Compact and Educational Opportunity for Military Children, Maryland State Department of Education.




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 25, 1987
