
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education is committed to providing transportation services to students in a safe and efficient manner. With the intent of protecting the general well-being of students, the Board of Education recognizes the need to establish parameters for which transportation services are provided.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish a process by which transportation services for students are provided.


III. Standards





The provisions of this policy apply to all eligible students, public and non-public, for whom school bus transportation is provided by the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).



Transportation will be provided to all eligible students attending public and non-public schools designated and approved by the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE) and/or the HCPSS subject to the availability of funding.



Transportation services provided to a student with an Individualized Education Plan (IEP) or a Section 504 plan will be provided in accordance with that plan, as well as federal, state, and local laws/regulations.



Students who attend parochial schools will receive transportation services as provided in the Howard County Code and HCPSS policies and procedures. This service will be provided only on a space-available basis along existing school bus routes designed to serve public schools. Parochial schools that receive state aid will not receive transportation services.



When considering the need for and/or implementing school bus service, the staff will consider:




Reasonable levels of safety.



Program efficiency.



Economy of operations.



Equity of service.



IEP or Section 504 plan requirements.



Homeless children and youth.


Providing a reasonable level of safety will be the major staff consideration.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure the safe design of all school bus routes that serve public and non-public schools.



Parents will ensure the safety and conduct of their children from the time they leave home until they board the school bus or enter school property and from the time they leave the school bus or exit school property at the end of the day.



The Student Transportation Office will identify transported areas, non-transported areas, and school bus routes.



Students will adhere to the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. §1411



Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §791 et seq



McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act – 42 U.S.C. §11301 et. seq.



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, § 5-203



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, § 7-606



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, § 9-100



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, § 9-101



Md. Ann. Code, Transportation, § 22-228



COMAR 13A.06.07, Pupil Transportation



COMAR 13A.05.01



Louisa E. Baker v. Carroll County Board of Education, Maryland State Board of Education, Opinion No. 99-25




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 24, 1980
