
I. Eligibility for Transportation Services





Distance criteria will be adhered to concerning walking to a school bus stop or when determining eligibility for school bus service provided that traffic and/or walking conditions meet a reasonable level of safety and/or conditions permit safe bus operations. Some students may be required to walk to a school bus stop or to school in excess of the stated distance if a reasonable level of safety cannot be achieved.



In establishing the demarcation line between transported and non-transported areas, the Student Transportation Office may extend these distances to coincide with breaks in the pattern of homes, such as cul-de-sac, street intersections, major roadways, streams, parks, walking easements, commercial property, vacant land, unusual contour variations, and otherfeatures.



Where applicable, the Student Transportation Office will identify geographic areas where exceptions are made to the eligibility criteria because of safety reasons. When this occurs, the Student Transportation Office will notify the appropriate school administration of the exception.



Non-transported area information can be found on the HCPSS Transportation website. The school administration will notify the parent(s) and student(s) that the student(s) is ineligible for bus transportation services. If a student is not eligible for transportation, it is the parents’ responsibility to determine their child’s method of travel to and from school.



Eligible students must request a transportation route assignment. Requests must be submitted prior to the final day of school for the upcoming school year. Late requests could result in a delay in transportation services. No transportation service will be provided prior to the approval of a submitted request.



All school bus route information will be posted on the HCPSS Transportation website.



The rolling implementation of changes to this policy begin with an opt-in initiative, along with distance change, for Pre-K students only, beginning with requests for transportation in Summer 2022 that take effect in school year 2022-2023. All other changes to this policy for the opt-in initiative, along with distance change, for grades K-12, will begin with requests for transportation in school year 2022-2023 that take effect in school year 2023-2024.




II. Other Transportation Services





Alternate School Bus Service




Alternate School Bus Service must be requested using the Alternate School Bus form, which can be obtained from the HCPSS Transportation website.



The parent must submit the form to the Student Transportation Office where it will be approved upon receipt.



The requested service remains consistent throughout the school year.



Both the home address and the alternate address are located in the same school attendance area and within the service area for the school.



No more than one alternate bus may be requested.




III. Establishing School Bus Stops and Routes





School bus stops will be established in compliance with Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 13A.06.07 with consideration given to, but not limited to, safety, efficiency, economics, equity, and Individualized Education Program (IEP) and Section 504 Plan requirements.



School bus stops will generally be at least 1/4 mile apart.



School bus stops may be established on both sides of a roadway when sight distance and/or traffic conditions warrant.



Off-road school bus stops (loading and unloading zones) will be established whenever possible, consistent with Maryland Vehicle Laws and COMAR 13A.06.07.



School bus routes will be developed using industry accepted standards, including, but not limited to, string routes, circular routes, feeder routes, shuttle routes and double coverage routes.




The Transportation Office may, at its sole discretion, adjust if deemed necessary to ensure the overall efficiency of the school bus routes.



The Student Transportation Office will, at its sole discretion, adjust a school start time plus or minus a maximum of ten (10) minutes if deemed necessary to ensure the overall efficiency of the school bus routes.




IV. Resources and Reviews





Road crossings may require final approval from the Howard County Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division. The Howard County Office of Transportation should be consulted in any review of road crossings.



The following resources will be used, as appropriate, to help determine suitable pathways, walkways, school bus stops, suitable crossings, bus turnarounds, school bus routes, etc.




Howard County Police Department



Howard County Department of Public Works Traffic Engineering Division



Howard County Office of Transportation



Howard County Department of Recreation and Parks



Columbia Association



Other state or county agencies




V. Walking Route and School Bus Stop Appeals





Parents who have a concern about their student’s walking route or school bus stop location will contact the Student Transportation Office to indicate their concern.



If the parent disagrees with the response from the area manager, the parent will be provided a Walking Route and School Bus Stop Appeal form.



Walking Route and School Bus Stop Appeals must be submitted to the Student Transportation Office in writing, using the Walking Route Appeal Survey or the School Bus Stop Survey forms.



Appeals will be forwarded to the Student Walking Route and Bus Stop Review Committee, who will submit its findings and recommendations to the Superintendent/designee.



The Superintendent/designee will review the committee’s findings and recommendations, as well as those of the Student Transportation Office, and render a decision that will be communicated to the appellant.



If the appellant is not satisfied with the Superintendent’s decision, a final written appeal may be made to the Board of Education.




VI. Other



The Student Transportation Office, Howard County Police, Howard County Traffic Engineering Office, Howard County Office of Transportation and/or any other state or county agency may make recommendations to the Superintendent on safety-related matters related to Policy 5200 Student Transportation.


VII. Monitoring



Policy 5200 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


VIII. References





Alternate School Bus Form



School Bus Stop Survey Form



Space Available Form



Walking Route Appeal Survey




IX. History



ADOPTED: July 24, 1980
