
I. Planned Acquisition and Unforeseen Opportunities



The Superintendent will include any plans to acquire sites in the annual capital budget and five-year capital improvement program for Board approval once a year. In the event of an unforeseen opportunity for site acquisition, the Superintendent will make a separate recommendation to the Board.


II. Acreage for School Sites



The desirable size in usable acres for school sites is indicated in the table below. A school may have to be accommodated on acreage that is below the indicated desirable size in certain circumstances.


III. Acquisition of a Site





Based on the standards noted in the policy, a provisional site or sites will be selected by the Superintendent and recommended to the Board in closed session. The Board will direct the Superintendent to obtain the advice of the Site Review Committee on provisional site(s) it approves.



The Superintendent/designee will obtain the advice of the Site Review Committee for provisional sites approved by the Board. At the meeting the Superintendent/ designee will provide relevant school planning and site information to facilitate a discussion of the regulatory review and any known pros or cons of the site. The committee will prepare recommendations for the Superintendent and the Board.



The Superintendent/designee will develop a timeline that incorporates all applicable review procedures and review this schedule with parties to the transaction. This timeline will include:




Site Inspection by Maryland Department of Planning



Review by the Maryland State Clearinghouse for Intergovernmental Assistance



Review by the State Interagency Committee for School Construction (IAC).




IV. Unsuccessful Negotiations



In those cases where negotiations appear to be unsuccessful, the Board may request that the Superintendent proceed with further action as necessary. This may take the form of further attempts at negotiations or immediate action to file condemnation proceedings.


V. Reservation of a Site



The Superintendent may recommend reserving a site for future acquisition. Reservation of a site may occur in two ways under Howard County Subdivision and Land Development Regulations:


VI. History



ADOPTED: October 12, 1989
