
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County, with the advice of the Superintendent, establishes school attendance areas to provide quality, equitable educational opportunities to all students while balancing the capacity utilization of all schools. The Board recognizes that school openings, closings, additions, program changes, population growth and other demographic changes may require adjustments to school attendance areas. The Board also recognizes the value of diverse and inclusive school populations when establishing attendance areas. The Board believes that analyses and recommendations from the Superintendent/designee, as well as public advice and comment, are integral to its deliberations and decisions related to school attendance areas.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to define the conditions and process by which school attendance area adjustments will be developed and adopted.


III. Standards





The Board will consider school attendance area adjustments whenever one or more of the following conditions exist:




A new school or addition is scheduled to open.



An existing permanent school facility is significantly damaged, deemed no longer to be usable, or otherwise scheduled to close.



School attendance area projections are outside the capacity utilization range of 90-110% and available capacity exists.



The program capacity of a school building is altered by the Board of Education.



A unique circumstance arising from internal or external contributing factors that prompts adjustments to promote efficiencies, provide for the welfare of students, or adapt for shifts in program delivery.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will prepare and provide enrollment projections and attendance area considerations on an annual basis to the Board.



The Board will determine whether any conditions exist that prompt the consideration of school attendance area adjustments and, when applicable initiate the attendance area review process.  The Board of Education will define the proposed scope and identify which standards noted in Section III.A. of this policy prompted this attendance area review for the upcoming process.



The Superintendent/designee will seek student, parent, staff, and community feedback on the attendance area adjustment considerations and provide opportunities for differing viewpoints to be expressed.



The Superintendent/designee will take summary notes of the AAC meeting(s) and make these summary notes available to the public.



The Board will hold public hearings, work sessions, and adopt the Board’s Final Attendance Area Adjustment Plan in public meetings.



The Superintendent/designee will communicate the Board’s action on the Board’s Final Attendance Area Adjustment Plan to the principals, PTA presidents and SGA presidents of each affected school, the president of the PTA Council of Howard County and the chairman of the Community Advisory Council to the Board.



Principals will communicate attendance area adjustments to the parents of students in areas affected by the Board’s action.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-109, Establishment of Public School



Maryland House Bill 1142 Education Article, Section 4-109.1



Maryland House Bill 1190 Education Article, Section 4-140




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 15, 2004
