
I. Public Notice



Every three to five years prior to the expiration of the current pool section, the request for proposal (RFP) will be advertised in at least two local newspapers soliciting applications for consideration for the pool for architectural and/or construction management (CM) services. At the same time, this information will be disseminated to:


II. Expression of Interest



Architects and/or construction managers who wish to apply must send a letter of application plus completed U. S. Government Standard Form 330 and/or other prequalification documents to:


III. Selection to Pool





The Director of Capital Planning and Construction will conduct a pre.qualification evaluation within 30 days of the closing date and forward a list of qualified firms to be considered for selection by the selection committee.



The selection committee will be comprised of nine members and will be chaired by the Director of Capital Planning and Construction. Committee members will be the:




Chief Operating Officer



Chief Business and Technology Officer



Executive Director, Operations



Executive Director, Facilities



Director of Capital Planning and Construction



Director of Purchasing



Manager of Design and Preconstruction Services



Manager, School Planning



A principal.


Any of the members may appoint a designee to serve in their place.


IV. Selection for Capital Improvement Projects





The Director of Capital Planning and Construction will select a firm from the pool considered to be the best qualified for an individual project.



The Director of Capital Planning and Construction will maintain current data as to fee schedules, levels of activity, project management, and prevalent practices in the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan region, with particular emphasis on comparable school construction projects.



The Director of Capital Planning and Construction will negotiate an agreement for fee. This fee negotiation will be subject to approval by the Director of Purchasing.



Should the Director of Capital Planning and Construction be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the firm most qualified, the Director reserves the right to negotiate with the next firm and to select a firm based upon a desired expertise when determined by the Director to be in the best interest of HCPSS.



The Director of Capital Planning and Construction with the concurrence of the Chief Operating Officer will present the final recommendation to the Superintendent.



The Superintendent will submit his recommendation to the Board. If the Board rejects the recommendation, it will go back for review and further action by the Superintendent.




V. History



ADOPTED: August 10, 1989
