
I. Factors Considered Before Use of a School is Discontinued



At a minimum, the factors below will be given consideration by the Superintendent/Designee when developing alternatives and recommendations.


II. Advisory Committee



The Superintendent/Designee will convene an ad hoc advisory committee of affected stakeholders which will include school staff, county staff, and representatives of the community.  This ad hoc advisory committee will study circumstances and develop recommendations for the Superintendent/Designee.


III. Report



The Superintendent/Designee will report on alternatives and recommendations. These will include an analysis of each factor listed above. The alternatives and recommendations will be presented to the Board of Education for its consideration. The Board may direct the Superintendent to develop additional information and/or to develop other alternatives for its consideration. The data used in formulating the report, with any references noted, will be available for review by the public.


IV. Board Decision



The decision to close one or more schools is made by the Board with the support of HCPSS staff. The Superintendent/Designee prepares technical analyses which consider the relevant factors enumerated in the procedures listed in I. above.


V. Public Hearing





Scheduling a Hearing


Except in unforeseen circumstances, a public hearing is scheduled at least forty-five (45) days after receiving the Superintendent’s alternatives and/or recommendations, so that citizens from the affected school community(ies) will have an opportunity to prepare oral and/or written testimony on alternatives and/or recommendations.


VI. Emergency Circumstances



In emergency circumstances, operations may be suspended at the facility prior to the decision to discontinue school use. This situation is addressed in
Policy 3010 Emergency Preparedness and Response
.


VII. State Consultation



Prior to the final decision, staff will review the proposed discontinuation of school use with appropriate staff from the Maryland State Department of Education and the Maryland Department of Planning to ensure that all state regulations are followed.


VIII. Notification of Final Decision





Notification, in writing, will be sent by the Superintendent to the following:




The Howard County Council



The Howard County Planning Board



The Howard County Executive



The principal of the school where school use will be discontinued



The PTA president(s) of the school where school use will be discontinued



The principal(s) of the schools to which students will be redistricted



The PTA president(s) of the schools to which students will be redistricted



Subscribers to the electronic mailing lists maintained by the Office of Public Information.




IX. Orderly Transition



In addition to the necessary redistricting, a transition plan will be developed to provide an orderly transition for the students and staff of affected school(s).


X. History



ADOPTED:  June 28, 1990
