
I. Policy Statement



The Howard County Board of Education is committed to promoting diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace as it accomplishes its mission to ensure academic success and social-emotional well-being for each student in an environment that closes opportunity gaps. To this end, the Board seeks to attract, recruit, retain, support and develop a workforce that will leverage the diverse knowledge and experiences of all our employees. The Board’s commitment to diversity and inclusion includes increasing employment and advancement opportunities for groups that are underrepresented in the workforce. It is committed to doing so by incorporating innovative methods to improve our outreach and recruiting efforts and creating a workplace culture that ensures fairness in the selection of individuals for career development programs, retention, and promotional opportunities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide direction and accountability in the pursuit of a diverse and inclusive workforce where the implementation of employment practices are free of discrimination.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The Board of Education will comply fully with all applicable federal, state, and local nondiscrimination laws with regard to equal employment opportunities.



Discrimination is forbidden in any employment policy or practice, including the recruitment, employment, assignment, recognition, compensation, promotion, retention, support, and transfer of employees.



Per Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination, an employee or third party will file a discrimination complaint with the Equity Assurance Manager/designee or with a school-based administrator or supervisor as appropriate. All such reports will be forwarded to the Equity Assurance Manager/designee.



The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) will maintain a diverse and inclusive workforce in order to provide a more enriched experience for students, employees, educators, families, and community members.



The HCPSS will respond to significant underrepresentation of a particular race, ethnicity, or gender within appropriate job categories.



The Board will receive available and legally permissible workforce diversity and inclusion data in the Human Resources Annual Report. The report will provide: information on recruitment and retention efforts; data for promotion and separations for employees; data regarding the racial composition of employees along with the racial distribution of employees in schools; trends data; and a description/progress report of programs utilized to achieve the stated goals.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure a diverse and inclusive workforce in order to provide a more enriched experience for students, employees, educators, families, and community members.



The Superintendent will implement procedures that will ensure compliance with this policy, as well as local, state, and federal laws regarding employment.



The Equity Assurance Manager/designee will commence appropriate action within two working days upon receipt of a discrimination complaint.



The Superintendent/designee will submit to the Board the Human Resources Annual Report.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Rehabilitation Act of 1973, U.S.C. 29, §794 et seq.



Americans with Disabilities Act, Title II, 42 U.S.C. §12115 et seq. 42 U.S.C. §12134



Fairness for All Marylanders Act of 2014




VIII. History



ADOPTED: August 5, 1969
