
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education (Board) is committed to a policy of employment and advancement based on qualifications and merit and does not discriminate in favor of or in opposition to the employment of relatives or those with whom a Board member or Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employee has a close relationship. In an effort to prevent conflicts of interest and to promote fair and equitable employment practices, the Board prohibits nepotism in hiring, promotion, evaluation of performance, and the administration of benefits.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to promote fair employment practices, prevent discrimination, and to avoid conflicts of interest related to hiring, promotions, performance evaluations, and the administration of benefits. This policy also seeks to avoid the appearance of favoritism.


III. Standards





This policy applies to all current HCPSS employees and candidates for employment, whether full or part-time, temporary or permanent. It also applies to those contingent workers who are sourced through a contracted service.



Employment decisions must be based on merit, avoiding discrimination and favoritism of any kind.



An HCPSS employee with supervising authority will not be in a position that directly or indirectly supervises, evaluates, disciplines, and/or makes decisions that impact the employment status of a family member and those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship.



Family members and those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship will not be hired, assigned, transferred, or promoted if such action would violate this policy.



This policy must be adhered to when determining assignments, transfers, promotions, terminations, and the administration of benefits.



Board members and HCPSS employees must notify the Executive Director of Human Resources (EDHR) within 10 business days of becoming aware that they are or have become a family member of or have entered into a close relationship with another HCPSS employee or member of the Board by entering this information/family member and/or close relationship into Workday.



Unless otherwise informed by the EDHR, individuals who are family members and those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship are permitted to work in the same school, division, department or office, provided no reporting or supervisor-to-subordinate relationship exists.



An HCPSS employee may not influence the work responsibilities, salary, hours, career progress, benefits, or other terms and conditions of employment of his or her family member or those with whom the employee has a close relationship, separate from its impact on a group of HCPSS employees.



Board members and HCPSS employees will not vote or take action involving the employment, assignment, promotion, individual compensation, discipline, suspension, or dismissal of a family member or those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship. They must disqualify themselves from every proceeding, vote, and discussion regarding any such matter and must recuse and excuse themselves from the room during closed session discussions related to such procedures.



To prevent an actual conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest, HCPSS employees within the Office of Human Resources (OHR), Payroll, General Counsel, and Internal Audit will recuse themselves from decisions that impact the wages, hours, benefits, career progress and other terms and conditions of employment of their family members and those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship, separate from its impact on a group of HCPSS employees.



There is no prohibition beyond these standards against family members or those with whom the HCPSS employee has a close relationship working for HCPSS or working in the same location.




IV. Responsibilities





The OHR will ensure that all applicants have disclosed any family or close relationships in Workday prior to hire, promotion, and/or transfer.



The OHR will ensure that all new HCPSS employees are informed of this policy at the time of hire.



The OHR will consider the provisions of this policy when finalizing all assignments, transfers, and promotions.



HCPSS employees with supervisory authority will abide by the provisions of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will report on the number of cases of nepotism found, the number of disclosed family members and close relationships, and the number of alternate supervisors in place to avoid violations of nepotism during monitoring efforts as part of the annual Human Resources Report.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal


VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 9, 1992
