
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education believes that all employees will conduct themselves in accordance with standards of behavior that reflect the educational and human relations philosophies of the Howard County Public School System(HCPSS). The Board values the important role that exemplary employee conduct and quality performance provide to the achievement of a safe, inclusive, and nurturing environment.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to articulate expectations for employee conduct and establish standards to achieve the Board’s goal of providing a safe, inclusive, and nurturing environment within the HCPSS. The policy also establishes employee discipline procedures to guide responses in cases of alleged misconduct.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Employees will perform their duties and responsibilities in a satisfactory manner and will exhibit the professional conduct necessary to meet these expectations.



Employees will exhibit professional conduct and will model responsible citizenship during work hours as well as during off-duty hours.



Employees will use the internet, email, and other electronic communication in an appropriate manner at all times.



The Board recognizes that any disciplinary action needed will conform to the standards established for employees by law, regulation, policy, and duties and responsibility of the HCPSS. Appropriate disciplinary action for all employees may include suspension or dismissal of the employee.



The Board recognizes the following as reasons that might warrant imposition of disciplinary action. This list is not all inclusive.




Immorality




Immodest, lewd, obscene conduct or language that renders the employee unfit for the performance of his/her duties



Inducing students or others to participate in, or commit an act or acts, which are immodest, indecent, or obscene



Conduct contributing to the delinquency of a minor



Child abuse or neglect



Criminal conduct



Violent behavior



Conduct negatively affecting an employee’s fitness to perform their duties and responsibilities, including serving as a role model for students.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/Designee will investigate alleged violations of this policy and take appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with this policy.



Supervisors and administrators will take appropriate disciplinary action in accordance with this policy.



The Office of Human Resources will ensure that all newly hired employees receive notification of this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will ensure that all employees are made aware of policy. Policy updates will be posted on theHCPSS website.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-205



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 6-202




VIII. History



ADOPTED: March 14, 1996
