
I. Discipline Guidelines



If an employee fails to meet expected standards of job performance, disciplinary action will be taken. The following guidelines will be employed in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS):


II.	Violations



If an employee does not meet the expected standards of job performance, several types of infractions could warrant disciplinary action. These infractions are cited below by category and include examples. The list is not inclusive and the examples may apply to more than one category.


III. Disciplinary Investigation Process



When disciplinary action is warranted, an investigation of the circumstances of the case will be employed, as described below.


IV. Discipline/Administrative Leave Authority Based on Employee’s Job Classification



School-based administrators and supervisors throughout the HCPSS will respond to employee discipline issues based on the employee’s job classification, as described below.


V. Employee Assistance Program (EAP)



In the event that an administrator or appropriate supervisor is concerned that an employee’s emotional or mental state is adversely affecting work performance, the employee may be referred to the EAP for support.


VI. Fitness for Duty Evaluations



In the event there is concern that an employee’s physical or psychological state is significantly impairing the employee’s ability to safely or effectively perform his or her essential job functions, a request for a Fitness for Duty Evaluation can be made by the employee’s supervisor or administrator. A request for a Fitness for Duty Evaluation must be based on the supervisor’s personal observations or from a reliable third party. Observed behaviors must considerably impair the employee’s ability to effectively perform his or her essential job functions and may pose a direct threat to the safety of the employee or others. It is the supervisor’s responsibility to document, in writing, the behaviors and observations that lead to the request for a Fitness for Duty Evaluation.


VII. History



ADOPTED: March 14, 1996
