
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education is committed to ensuring a safe, nurturing, and inclusive environment for its employees. The Board values a work environment free of drugs and the abuse of medications, recognizing that such conduct compromises the well being of students and staff.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish standards and procedures for employees regarding the possession, use, or distribution of drugs and drug paraphernalia and the abuse of over-the-counter and prescription medications.


III.  Standards





Compliance with this policy is a condition of continued employment, and violations of this policy constitute grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) will not hire anyone who is known to currently use drugs or drug paraphernalia.



An employee may not use, possess, or be in constructive possession of drugs or drug paraphernalia.



An employee may not distribute or have the intent to distribute drugs, drug paraphernalia, or prescription medication.



An employee may not distribute or administer over-the counter medications or prescription medications to students except when specified as part of job responsibilities and parent consent, as provided in Policy 9230 Alcohol, Other Drugs, Prescription Medication and Over the Counter Products, and as outlined in the Health Procedures Manual.



An employee may not abuse over-the counter medications or prescription medications.



An employee may not engage in conduct that is a violation of any federal or state law concerning the possession, use, distribution, or intent to distribute drugs or drug paraphernalia.



Employees must report any violation or suspected violation of this policy to the Office of Staff Relations within one (1) workday. Failure to report policy violations or suspected policy violations may result in disciplinary action.



An employee who operates an HCPSS vehicle is required to report any drug or drug paraphernalia charges to the Office of Staff Relations prior to the start of their next workday following the filing of legal charges.



Every supervisor and/or principal must report immediately any violations or alleged violations of this policy to the Superintendent/designee for investigation.



An employee who aids, abets, and/or conspires with any person to violate this policy may be subject to disciplinary action.



An employee who knowingly gives false information, fails to cooperate, or in any way impedes an investigation conducted by the Superintendent/designee may be subject to disciplinary action.



An employee who is convicted of drug or drug paraphernalia offenses may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



Conduct constituting a potential criminal violation regarding drugs will be reported to the police by the Superintendent/designee.



An employee may be required to participate in a treatment program designed to address drug use and related problems.




IV. Responsibilities





The Office of Human Resources will ensure that all newly hired employees receive notification of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that all employees are made aware of this policy. Policy updates will be posted on the HCPSS website.



All employees will report alleged violations of this policy or implementation procedures to their immediate supervisor.



Supervisors and principals will report alleged violations of this policy to the Superintendent/designee.



The Superintendent/designee will investigate and make decisions regarding any reports of alleged violations of this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. Section 812



The Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 12114



The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, 41 U.S.C. Sections 702-707



34 C.F.R. 84.100-115



34 C.F.R. 84.200-230



34 C.F.R. 84.605-670



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 5-101 (g)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 5-101 (p)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 6-202



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Health General Article, Section 17-214



COMAR 10.10.10.01-.10



COMAR 13A.12.05.02



COMAR 13A.12.05.03




VIII. History



ADOPTED:  September 13, 1990
