
I. Investigation of Alleged Violations





When the Superintendent/designee receives notice of an alleged violation of the provisions of Policy 7050, the following actions will be taken:


The Superintendent/designee will conduct an investigation into the alleged violation and make a determination regarding the employee’s involvement in the alleged violation.


II. Drug Testing





The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) has the right to conduct drug testing on any employee based on reasonable suspicion of a policy violation and/or to ensure compliance with any aspect of a disciplinary action. Failure to comply with a drug test notification or the alteration of a sample may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



All drug testing of employees will comply with Section 17-214 of the Health General Article of the Annotated Code of Maryland and COMAR 10.10.10.01-.10 regarding the certification of any laboratory testing specimen.



If the employee has tested positive for the use of any drug, the HCPSS will, after confirmation of the test results, supply the employee with:




A copy of the test results.



A copy of the Howard County Public School System’s written policy and implementation procedures on drug abuse.



If applicable, written notice of the Howard County Public School System’s intention to take disciplinary action.



A statement or copy of the Annotated Code, Health General Article, Section 17-214 (e), which permits an employee to request independent testing of the same sample for verification of the test results.


The information described in Section II.C.1-4. will be delivered to the employee in person or by certified mail and within seven (7) days from the date the confirmed positive test results are received by the HCPSS. (COMAR 10.10.10.08)


III. Referral/Treatment for Employees





An employee may be required to participate in a Fitness for Duty Evaluation and any resulting treatment recommendations designed to address drug use and/or over-the-counter medication or prescription medication abuse and related problems.




This participation may be required as a condition of returning to employment, continued employment, or as associated with disciplinary action.



The employee may be required to provide the Superintendent/designee with evidence of participation and compliance with recommendations as a condition of continued employment or returning to employment.




IV. Non-Discrimination Against Prior Users





HCPSS will not take disciplinary action against an employee who has used drugs if they meet all of the following conditions. The employee:




Voluntarily admits that they have used drugs or drug paraphernalia or abused over-the-counter medications or prescription medications prior to being identified through other means.



Is not currently engaged in the use of drugs or drug paraphernalia or the abuse of over-the-counter medications or prescription medications.



Has completed, or is in the process of completing, a treatment or rehabilitation program.



Did not endanger any student or other employee through his/her use of drugs or drug paraphernalia or abuse of over-the-counter medications, or prescription medications.



Did not use drugs or drug paraphernalia or abuse over-the-counter medications or prescription medications on school system property, at an HCPSS-sponsored event, or while engaged in HCPSS duties.



Thereafter refrains from using drugs or drug paraphernalia or abusing over-the-counter medications or prescription medications.




The Superintendent/designee will set terms and conditions for continued employment.



Such terms and conditions may include participation in a treatment program as outlined in Section III.




V.  Monitoring



Policy 7050 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Human Resources and Professional Development.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. History



ADOPTED: September 13, 1990
