
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the right of and encourages Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees to ethically produce materials and/or other forms of intellectual property. The Board also recognizes the need for all employees to understand the circumstances where HCPSS may have proprietary rights to intellectual property produced. Depending upon the situation, royalties for such materials and/or other forms of intellectual property may be paid to the employee or to an approved charity.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish provisions which define how proprietary rights are recognized when employees develop materials and other forms of intellectual property and how equitable allocation of royalties and other ownership rights is established.


III. Standards





The Board does not inhibit employees, outside of their work duty day and apart from their employment with the HCPSS, using their own resources, to research, author, or produce materials and/or other forms of intellectual property. The Board also recognizes the right of employees to own business interests in companies which produce such intellectual property.



Employees who produce materials and/or other forms of intellectual property outside of their work duty day, apart from their employment, using their own resources, have the right to exercise total proprietary rights, including royalty rights, regarding the intellectual property, subject to the provisions of the Board of Educations’ Policy 2070 Ethics and the HCPSS Ethics Regulations.



The Board retains the rights to all materials and/or other forms of intellectual property produced by HCPSS employees during their work duty day, as part of their employment, or with the use of HCPSS resources. In this situation, the Board reserves the right to copyright or patent the intellectual property in its name and to otherwise exercise proprietary rights, including royalty rights. Employees will not be compensated for the materials and/or other forms of intellectual property produced by HCPSS employees during their work duty day, or as part of their employment, or with the use of HCPSS resources without the written agreement established in Standard E.



Prior to the development of new materials and/or other forms of intellectual property related to their employment, employees must meet with the Superintendent/designee to obtain permission to create the material and/or other forms of intellectual property and to gain an understanding of any ethical considerations. The meeting should occur regardless of whether the materials and/or other forms of intellectual property will be developed outside or during the work duty day or will use some or no HCPSS resources.



Employees who receive approval for the development of materials and/or other forms of intellectual property that does involve full or partial use of HCSS resources and/or partial use of the work duty day will seek to have the respective rights of ownership between the employee and the Board addressed in a written agreement. If there is no such agreement, the rights of ownership shall belong to the Board.



Materials and/or other forms of intellectual property authored or produced by employees may be purchased by the HCPSS if they are approved for purchase according to standard evaluation and selection procedures for those items in accordance with Policy 2070 Ethics and HCPSS Ethic Regulations, Policy 4050 Procurement of Goods and/or Services, and Policy 8040 Selection of Instructional Materials.



An employee may not participate in the evaluation or procurement of materials and/or other forms of intellectual property wholly or partially produced by the employee and/or immediate family member.



An employee who receives royalties or compensation on the sale of materials and/or other forms of intellectual property to the HCPSS, must donate royalties and/or net pro rata profits to an approved charity if




The sale of the materials and/or other forms of intellectual property exceeds $25,000 annually, or



The employee receives a pro rata share of payment of account on sales of materials and/or other forms of intellectual property in excess of $25,000 annually.


The amount that is to be donated is the royalties and/or net pro rata profits on any sales in excess of $25,000.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will provide a report on employees royalties to the Board annually.



Employees will obtain prior permission from the Superintendent/designee to develop materials and/or other forms of intellectual property related to their employment.



Employees who receive approval for the development of materials and/or other forms of intellectual property that does involve full or partial use of HCPSS resources and/or partial use of the work duty day will seek to have the respective rights of ownership between the employee and the Board addressed in a written agreement.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




35 U.S. Code Section 100




VIII. History



APPROVED: May 5, 1970
