
I. Qualifications





Prior to advertising a vacancy for a certificated administrator or supervisor position, the Executive Director of Human Resources/designee will consult with the Central Office position supervisor(s) to develop a current position description and vacancy announcement aligned with the Office of Human Resources policies and procedures.



The minimum and preferred qualifications for education, certification, and experience will be identified in the vacancy announcement.




II. General Procedures for Vacancies





Announcements of vacancies addressed by Policy 7070 will comply with current negotiated master agreements when applicable. Vacancy announcements will be available to current Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees and to the public in accordance with the Office of Human Resources procedures.



Vacancy announcements will communicate specific application timelines, requirements, and procedures.



The Office of Human Resources will screen submitted applications to identify those that meet the minimum qualifications.



A selection committee will be established in accordance with the Office of Human Resources procedures.



The selection committee will be responsible for the implementation of the interview selection process and implementation of interviews in order to select and recommend to the Superintendent/designee the candidate(s) best suited for the position. The selection committee will implement the following in consultation with the Office of Human Resources.




Evaluate application materials and identify candidates to interview utilizing the Office of Human Resources interview selection process;



Review candidates’ personnel history to determine if there are open complaints or investigations pending regarding violation of Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination; Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct; Policy 1025 Title IX Sexual Harassment; and Policy 7140 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, and Intimidation Involving Employees. If there are open complaints or investigations, the selection committee will contact the appropriate office or department to determine the status and time frame for the resolution.



Review candidates’ personnel history to determine if there were prior investigations regarding allegations of violations of Policy 1010 Anti-Discrimination; Policy 1020 Sexual Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, and Sexual Misconduct; Policy 1025 title IX Sexual Harassment; and Policy 7140 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, and Intimidation Involving Employees. The status of any and all investigations will be determined and the selection committee will verify that the outcomes of such investigations are considered in the appointment process.



Interview candidates identified by the interview selection process.




III. Exceptions



The Superintendent may make exceptions to these procedures in the event that a specific vacancy presents unique needs.


IV. Definitions



Within the contact of these implementation procedures, the following definition applies:


V. Monitoring



Policy 7070 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Human Resources and Professional Development.


VI. History



ADOPTED: November 21, 1989
