
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes that the human resources of the school system are the most critical element in enabling the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) to carry out its mission successfully.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish a clear process for the administrative transfer of teachers without limiting or proscribing in any way the statutory authority of the Superintendent to transfer certificated personnel as the needs of the schools require.


III. Standards





Administrative transfers are essential to the school system’s effective utilization of human resources and fall within the statutorily prescribed authority of the Superintendent.



The administrative transfer of a teacher is usually initiated by the principal and requires the approval of the Superintendent/designee.



Request for a voluntary transfer is initiated by a teacher in compliance with HCPSS Office of Human Resources timelines and procedures.



The processes for voluntary and involuntary transfers are established by the HCPSS Office of Human Resources in compliance with the terms of the Master Agreement between the Board of Education of Howard County and the Howard County Education Association (HCEA) and communicated annually through standard communication channels.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will provide annual notification of this policy to
principals.



Principals will provide annual notification of this policy to teachers.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions





Administrative Transfer – A change in assignment from one school to another position at the initiation of the Superintendent/designee.



Teacher – Personnel assigned to a position for which the Board requires a valid Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE) teaching certificate and/or licensure recognized by the MSDE.



Voluntary Transfer – A change in assignment from one school to another initiated by the teacher in compliance with the processes established by the HCPSS Office of Human Resources.




VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 6-201




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 22, 1994
