
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education recognizes its legal obligation to provide leave in compliance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA).


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to ensure the implementation of the
Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA)
.


III. Standards





Under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) up to 12 weeks of leave in a 12-month period may be granted to an eligible employee for:




The employee’s own serious health condition that renders the employee unable to perform the functions of the employee’s position or job.



The care for a spouse, child, eligible same sex domestic partner (SSDP), or parent who has a serious health condition.



The birth of the employee’s child.



The adoption of a child by the employee.



The placement of a foster child with the employee.




IV. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the provisions of this policy are followed.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions





Child – A biological, adopted, or foster child, stepchild, a legal ward, or child of a person standing in loco parentis who is under age 18, unless he or she is incapable of self care due to mental or physical disability.



Eligible Employee – An employee who has is employed at .5 or more and who has been employed with the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) for at least 12 months during the 12-month period immediately preceding the commencement of the leave.



Eligible Same Sex Domestic Partner (SSDP) – An individual approved to receive benefits under the criteria established by the Board and as stated in the Benefits Enrollment Guide for Active Employees.



Employment Benefits – All benefits provided to employees of the HCPSS, which may include group life insurance, health insurance, sick leave, personal leave, or annual leave as referred to in the negotiated agreements.



Family and Medical Leave – Leave with or without pay granted to an eligible employee in compliance with federal regulations and guidelines.



Military Family Leave – Leave with or without pay granted to an eligible employee in compliance with the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008.



Serious Health Condition – An illness, injury, impairment, physical or mental condition that involves:




Any period of incapacity or treatment in connection with inpatient care (an overnight stay) in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care facility.



Any period of incapacity requiring absence from work, school, or other regular daily activities of more than three calendar days that involves continuing treatment by, or under the supervision of, a health care provider.



Continuing treatment by, or under the supervision of, a health care provider for a chronic or long-term health condition that is incurable or so serious that, if untreated, would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than three calendar days.




VII. References



A. Legal




Public Law 103-3, 107 Stat. 6 (29 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.), Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993



Public Law 110-181, Section 585(a), the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 (NDAA)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 14, 1994
