
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education believes the selection and placement of qualified substitute teachers in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) is essential to ensuring coverage of classrooms in the absence of regular teachers. The Board also believes the continuity of programs and curriculum implementation is essential and is affected by the competency of the substitute teachers placed in teaching assignments.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to designate the responsibility and establish the procedures for the employment and assignment of qualified substitute teacher personnel.


III. Standards





Substitute teachers are expected to comply with all Board of Education policies.  Substitute teachers are also expected to follow all school procedures, guidelines and directives when replacing the classroom teacher.



Substitute teachers will be approved by the Temporary Services Office.



Teachers will notify the Temporary Services Office’s automated substitute reporting and assignment system or a school administrator of an impending absence.



All substitute assignments will be arranged by a request to the Temporary Services Office’s automated substitute reporting and assignment system.



The Temporary Services Office will make every reasonable effort to provide a sufficient number of substitute teachers to meet the needs of the HCPSS.



Substitute teachers may be removed from approved status or placed on a school’s “Do Not Use” list by the Executive Director of Human Resources/designee if situations warrant such action.




IV. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the provisions of this policy are followed.


V. Delegation of Authority




The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions





Substitute Teacher – A person who meets the qualifications as defined by the Office of Human Resources and who has complied with all of the criteria for approval.



Temporary Services Office – The office that is part of the Office of Human Resources whose staff is responsible for approving and hiring all substitute teachers and administering the automated substitute reporting and assignment system.




VII. References



A. Legal




Public Law 107-110 No Child Left Behind Act of 2001




VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 10, 1974
