
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to ensuring that all students learn and that students, parents, teachers, administrators, and other stakeholders are provided meaningful feedback on student achievement. Grading, reporting, promotion, and retention within the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) are based on the individual student’s mastery of curriculum standards. Additionally, the Board supports students in maintaining and extending their learning through the use of homework as part of the curricular program.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines to ensure that information on grading, reporting, promotion, retention, and homework is determined in a clear and consistent manner and is reported to students and their families through regular and timely communication that accurately reflects the student’s mastery of standards.


III. Standards





Grading – The grading system is used to reflect student progress toward meeting grade level standards.




Academic Grades


Grades will be reported on the report card. In Prekindergarten-5, grades are derived from a compilation of what students know and/or can do from that marking period.


IV. Responsibilities





Principals will communicate annually information regarding promotion, retention, and accelerated grade placement, and homework to all students, parents, and HCPSS employees.



The principal will make decisions regarding promotion, retention, and accelerated grade placement, with input from the appropriate school/grade level team and based on a student’s performance and academic progress over the entire school year.



HCPSS school-based employees will communicate information related to academic performance to students and parents and for developing, implementing, and monitoring strategies to improve achievement for students performing below grade level expectations.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth in this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Title 7-301 State Board of Education; Subtitle 3., Compulsory Attendance



State Bylaw COMAR 13A.08.01.02 Lawful Cause of Absence



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §1400 et seq.



Rehabilitation Act of 1973, 29 U.S.C. §794 et seq.



COMAR 13A.08.01.03



COMAR 13A.08.01.04




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 27, 1991
