
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to ensuring that all students learn and that students, parents, teachers, administrators, and other stakeholders are provided meaningful feedback on student achievement. Grading, reporting, promotion, and retention within the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) are based on the individual student’s mastery of curriculum standards. Additionally, the Board supports students in maintaining and extending their learning through the use of homework as part of the curricular program. The Board views grading, reporting, and homework as part of an ongoing conversation about student academic progress with students and their families.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines to ensure that information on grading, reporting, promotion, retention, and homework is determined in a clear and consistent manner and reported to students and their families through regular and timely communication about student academic progress.


III. Standards





Grades and Codes




A letter grade or a code will be given for all courses in which a student is enrolled.



A letter grading (A, B, C, D, E) and coding (I, N/A, P, W, X, Z) system as described in Sections III.A.3. and 4. respectively, will be used; no plus or minus signs will be used for official records, such as reports cards and transcripts.



Codes




Any courses taken in middle and high school.




I - I (Incomplete) codes will be used when a student has not been able to complete required coursework due to excused absences or other extenuating circumstances. I codes will be converted to an appropriate letter grade according to Implementation Procedures Section II.D.1.



N/A - N/A (Not Available) codes will be used when transfer students (in-county or from out-of-county) are missing grades from one marking period and/or assessment grades. High school credited courses with N/A codes will be calculated into the cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA). The final grade will be the average of the remaining quarters or assessment grades. N/A codes may also be used as a placeholder for non-traditional courses until the marking period and/or assessment grades are recorded at the end of the semester. If an N/A code is needed for another reason, counselors should request permission from the Office of School Counseling. A student may not receive N/A codes in multiple quarters of the same course and still receive credit.


When the achievement of Individualized Education Program (IEP) goals requires a schedule change, N/A codes will be used for missing marking period and/or assessment grades in a new course.


IV. Responsibilities



Principals will communicate information annually regarding middle and high school grading and reporting to all students, parents, and HCPSS employees.


V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-301, Compulsory Attendance



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-101(c) (Informal Kinship Care)



Md. Ann. Code, Family Law Article, §5-507



COMAR 13A.03.02, Graduation Requirements for Public High School in Maryland



COMAR 13A.03.02.08, Grading and Reporting



COMAR 13A.08.01.03, Lawful Absence



COMAR 13A.08.01.04, Unlawful Absence



COMAR 13A.10.01.01, Home Instruction Program




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 25, 1987
