
I. Notification/Dissemination



The principal will inform all students, parents, and Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees of the provisions of this policy annually and at other times as appropriate. This may be done in the following ways:


II. Grading





Determining Quarterly Student Grades




The letter grade will be used to indicate the individual level of achievement of each student in relation to mastery of curriculum standards.



Curriculum coordinators will work with teachers and other stakeholders to collaboratively create quarterly grading parameters to include percentages, appropriate short-term (formative) assignments and summative tasks by content area and/or grade level. Neither summative nor short-term assignment categories should exceed 70 % of the total quarterly grade.



Short-term assignments may include a variety of classwork such as independent work, individually graded group work, oral responses, and other tasks.



Summative tasks may involve examinations (e.g., tests) and tasks/projects (e.g., longer-term assignments, essays, projects). Both short-term assignments and summative tasks should include a variety of types of work. Tasks will be graded on demonstration of performance objectives, quality of work, and completeness.



The parameters will be submitted for review to the Division of Academics Leadership Team. Once accepted, parameters will be reviewed by the Division of Academics Leadership Team annually and any changes will be made collaboratively with educators and the Division of Academics. Recommendations for changes to grading parameters will be subject to a comment period prior to review.



Extra credit is not offered in Grades 6-12. However, students may be provided with opportunities to recover credit and demonstrate mastery through other relevant coursework. Opportunities should be given to students who are not passing whenever possible.



Within the first five days of class, every teacher will distribute to their students an explanation of how students’ grades will be calculated. This information will be made available to parents both in writing and through the learning management system. Prior to distribution to students, the administrator will review and approve the teacher’s grading explanations.




III. Reporting





Teachers will grade, post, and return student work within three weeks of the due date, barring unusual circumstances and include written feedback when possible and appropriate.




Students and parents can expect updated grades every three weeks from the start of a marking period. The exception will be during the start of school when teachers will post updated grades by the fourth week of school (20 school days).



Teachers should notify parents of unsatisfactory progress throughout the marking period.



Assignments or assessments that are unable to be sent home due to question security or copyright may be reviewed at school by students or parents but may not be sent home.




IV. Report Card Grade Change Procedures



Grade changes must be documented on the grade change form. Parents must be notified of the grade change by the teacher or the principal.


V. Report Card Code Change



Code changes must be documented on the grade change form. Parents must be notified of the code change by the teacher or the principal.


VI. Homework





For the purposes of determining the number of hours of homework per week or day, teachers should include reading of course material, studying of course material, and practicing skills taught in course (e.g., rehearsing a musical instrument). Time spent on long-term projects should also be included when determining the number of hours of homework; however, these projects do not constitute homework for grading purposes.



Middle and high school teaching staff will be provided with opportunities to meet as teams to schedule assignments so that students do not regularly have more than one hour of homework each week per instructor. It is recommended that the school principal or designee work with teaching staff to facilitate this collaboration.



The goals and expectations for homework in high school credit courses will be clear and include opportunities for student input. As appropriate, flexibility and student choice will be considered in the assignment of homework duration, rigor, product, and weight in grading. A syllabus is recommended for distribution at the beginning of every semester outlining each course’s requirements, including regular assignments, projects, possible due dates, and procedures for requesting feedback on assignments.




VII. Monitoring



Policy 8020 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VIII. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


IX. History



ADOPTED: June 25, 1987
