
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to ensuring that each student in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) meets rigorous academic standards and is prepared to enter postsecondary education or employment. The Board further recognizes that fulfilling this commitment requires effective instruction and flexible programming that address the unique needs and interests of students. Within the high school program, students will have access to a wide variety of course offerings, including work-based learning experiences that meet and supplement academic requirements, to prepare them to be responsible members of a global society.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish requirements for graduation from high school in the HCPSS that are consistent with the regulations of the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE).


III. Standards





Graduation Requirements




Enrollment Requirement:


The student will satisfactorily complete four years of approved study beyond the eighth grade unless one of the alternatives in Section D. is satisfied.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the curriculum meets state standards for graduation.



The principal/designee will ensure that the approved curriculum is implemented.



The principal/designee will monitor student schedules to provide feedback to students and parents regarding progress toward the fulfillment of graduation requirements.



The principal/designee will review student records to determine eligibility for graduation.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




COMAR 13A.03.02, Graduation Requirements for Public High Schools in Maryland



COMAR 13A.03.02.03, Enrollment and Credit Requirements



COMAR 13A.03.02.04, Other Provisions for Earning Credit



COMAR 13A.03.02.05, Student Service



COMAR 13A.03.02.06, Maryland High School Assessments



COMAR 13A.03.02.09, Diplomas and Certificates



COMAR 13A.03.02.10, Alternatives to 4-year Enrollment Requirement



COMAR 13A.03.02.12, General Provisions (Transfer Students)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: February 13, 1986
