
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes its responsibility for the selection and acquisition of instructional resources, based on the Superintendent’s recommendation, in accordance with current federal and state law, COMAR, and established Board policies. The Board further recognizes that the instructional resources will provide content that aligns with local, state, and national curriculum standards, maintains educational excellence, nurtures student cognitive, social and emotional well-being, and affirms student identity and experiences.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish procedures and criteria for the evaluation, selection, and review of instructional resources for use in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


III. Standards





All approved curriculum instructional resources for use by students will be selected consistent with HCPSS established procedures and selection criteria.



All supplemental curriculum, teacher-selected, and teacher-created instructional resources for use by students will comply with HCPSS selection criteria.



The HCPSS selection criteria requires that all approved curriculum, supplemental curriculum, teacher-selected, and teacher-created instructional resources are:




Aligned to the HCPSS curriculum.



Designated age appropriate for the students for which the resources will be used.



Representative and respectful of the pluralistic nature and diversity of the Howard County community and global society, as outlined in Policy 1080 Educational Equity.



Of high quality content and instructional methodologies.



Reflective of diverse perspectives and points of view, as outlined in the implementation procedures for Policy 8050 Teaching of Controversial Issues.



Compliant with The Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment.



Compliant with HCPSS hardware, software, learning management system, and network standards to ensure optimum performance of electronic, digital, and web-based instruction.



Compliant with federal and state laws regarding data privacy, copyright, and accessibility for all students.



Adheres to the following guidance for rated motion pictures:




High School – PG-13, PG, G



Middle School – PG, G



Grades 4-5 – PG, G



Grades PreK-3 – G




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will oversee the selection of instructional resources that align with the vision and goals of the HCPSS.



The Superintendent/designee will annually provide any recommended revisions to the approved curriculum instructional resources to the Board for approval.



The Superintendent/designee will annually notify the public of this policy and of upcoming committee appointments via school system communication.



The Superintendent/designee will annually notify HCPSS employees of this policy to ensure that employees selecting and using instructional resources, including audio/visual materials, follow HCPSS selection criteria and procedures.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure the essential and supplemental digital tools are posted annually on the HCPSS website.



Curricular/program area supervisors will ensure resources recommended for the approved curriculum instructional resources list and all supplemental curriculum instructional resources are consistent with HCPSS selection criteria.



Principals will ensure that all instructional resources, including teacher-selected and teacher-created instructional resources, used in their schools, are consistent with HCPSS selection criteria.



Teachers will ensure that all instructional resources, including teacher-selected and teacher-created instructional resources, used in their classrooms, are consistent with HCPSS selection criteria.



HCPSS employees using instructional resources will ensure that all HCPSS selection criteria have been observed.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for implementing this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, 20 U.S.C. §1400 et seq



Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. §794 (d))



The Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §4-205



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-106



COMAR 13A.04.05, Education That is Multicultural



COMAR 13A.05.02, Administration of Services to Students with Disabilities




VIII. History



ADOPTED: December 3, 1975
