
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the role of public education in preparing students for effective citizenship. Consequently, the instructional program developed to achieve this purpose must appropriately emphasize cultural heritage, critical thinking, and the rights, privileges, and responsibilities of living in a pluralistic society. The Board also recognizes that as students prepare for active engagement in participatory democracy, they often encounter issues that may be considered controversial. The Board of Education encourages the examination of controversial issues related to Board approved curricula in an impartial and objective manner. The examination of controversial issues should occur in inclusive and supportive learning environments that encourage respect for multiple perspectives. The Board also encourages community stakeholders, students, school system employees, parents, service providers, and each member of the community to support the teaching of controversial issues in the classroom in order to promote the development of civic efficacy, student engagement, and critical thinking among our students.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the teaching of controversial issues.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





A controversial issue may be addressed in the classroom when the following conditions are met:




The issue has political, economic, cultural, or social significance and is presented within curricular guidelines.



Teachers have communicated to students how to practice civil discourse.



Students are provided access to relevant and credible information pertaining to the issue under study.



Students are able to form and express their own opinions on the issue without jeopardizing their relationships with teachers or the school.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that students, parents, employees, and third parties are notified of the provisions of this policy annually.



Teachers will present information in an objective manner, ensure multiple perspectives are represented, model citizenship and maintain adherence to related HCPSS policies as referenced in Section VII.B. of this policy.



School-based administrators will develop and implement school-based procedures for approving controversial issues to be considered in the classroom.



The Division of Academics, particularly those with curricular responsibilities, will provide assistance, advice, and training with regard to the teaching of controversial issues.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.04.04 Religious Education



Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.04.0 Program in Social Studies



Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.04.09 Program in Science



Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.04.14 Program in English Language Arts



Code of Maryland Regulations, 13A.04.18 Program in Comprehensive Health Education




VIII. History



ADOPTED: February 1, 1972
