
I. Required Non-School-Hour Curricular Activities





Elementary School Programs




If before school, after school, or evening activities are held, participation in the following are examples of what may be required:


II. Voluntary Non-School-Hour Curricular Activities



Enrichment, extension and academic intervention activities are opportunities that may be provided by individual school communities. They provide students with additional opportunities to interface with curriculum in less traditional settings.


III. Approval and Notification





Elementary Programs




The curricular activity leader will submit a curriculum-specific schedule of non-school-hour curricular activities and events that are part of the elementary performing arts curriculum for the upcoming school year to the principal/designee for approval prior to the beginning of each school year. This schedule will include dates for required practices, rehearsals, performances, and off-school site experiences or events, as well as any voluntary activities.



Information regarding non-school-hour curricular activities related to the performing arts curriculum in which students may be expected to participate will be provided to the parents of elementary school students at the beginning of each school year.  Identification of any expectation or requirement for parents to provide transportation will also be provided.



The curricular activity leader will provide participating students and parents with the approved schedule for required and for voluntary non-school-hour curricular activities and events at the beginning of each school year.



Students and parents will be informed in advance of any changes to the approved schedule.  If activities are added after the beginning of the school year, these activities will be voluntary.




IV. Attendance and Participation





Students with a lawful/excused absence during school hours may still participate in required non-school-hour curricular activities.



No grade penalty will be assessed for a lawful/excused absence from a required non-school-hour curricular activity.



Prior to excluding a student from a scheduled performance, the curricular activity leader will consult with the school administrator.



If a conflict arises between extracurricular activities (athletic event, talent show, etc.) and required non-school-hour curricular activities (band concert, dance performance, etc.), the required non-school-hour curricular activity takes precedence over the extracurricular activity. However, the appropriate curricular activity leaders will make every effort to resolve the conflict in a way that benefits both programs.



Transportation requirements will be provided to parents and students in program descriptions. Parents should communicate with school administrators or the curricular activity leader if a transportation issue arises for a scheduled non-school-hour curricular activity.




V. Monitoring



Policy 8090 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VI. History



ADOPTED: July 24, 1981
