
I. General





All Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) policies and school rules are applicable and in effect during field trips.



Students should report any concerns about violation of policy or HCPSS Student Code of Conduct concern during or after a field trip.



Planning and Approval




All field trips will be aligned with a field trip category (Curriculum, Culturally-Related, Community Building, Service learning, Personal Growth and Leadership Development) as outlined in Section VI.D. of the policy.



Field trips should reflect diverse experiences and opportunities for students.



The Field Trip Travel Request Form will be submitted to the school administrator for approval a minimum of forty (40) calendar days prior to the distribution of the Permission Form for Student Field Trip.


Requests that are not received within the designated time period may be subject to denial.


II. Specific Responsibilities:





Teacher-In-Charge




Execute all protocols in the Field Trip Procedures and Forms Packet.



Meet all approval timelines.



As necessary, contact the site desired and request contracts, quotes, invoices, and relevant details to support the completion of the Field Trip Request Form.



Be familiar with the site and with direct and alternate routes.



Secure approved means of transportation, per Section II.D.3. below.



Plan and write a detailed itinerary.



Advise school-based administrator(s) regarding costs and other appropriate information and update the information as necessary.



Submit the online Field Trip Travel Request Form for school-based administrator approval a minimum of thirty (30) school days prior to the departure date.



Prepare permission forms for the field trip.



Be aware that chaperones assigned to meet required ratios are considered essential for the trip and therefore, any costs associated with their participation will be included in the cost of the field trip and divided equally among participating students. Chaperones, should they choose, can exercise the option to pay for their own cost of field trip attendance.



In collaboration with administration, communicate to families:




Available payment options, including how to seek financial assistance to cover all or part of costs for field trips.



How to make a donation to the school to assist students in need of financial assistance.




III. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


IV. Monitoring



Policy 8100 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Operations.


V. History



ADOPTED: April 14, 1988
