
I. Course Access





Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) students may be eligible to enroll in HCPSS digital education under the following:




The school does not offer the course.



There is a scheduling conflict that prevents the student from taking the course when it is available and there is no accessible alternative in future academic years.



The student has been approved for early graduation or early college access demonstrated through their four-year plan.



Home and Hospital Teaching Program.



Administrative placement approved by a Community Superintendent.




II. Enrollment Requirements





Schools may assist parents in enrolling their students in digital education courses. HCPSS school-based employees may not enroll students in courses without first notifying the student and their parents.



A student may enroll in up to two (2) supplemental non-HCPSS (external) digital education courses per single school year.



HCPSS does not offer or accept credit recovery course credit for supplemental non-HCPSS (external) digital education courses.



A student may exceed the registration course limit for digital education courses with approval from the school administrator and the Innovative Pathways Program Office.



Students may enroll in a supplemental non-HCPSS (external) digital education course after the posted withdrawal deadline, which may include transfer students with an existing 0.5 credit towards a 1.0 credit course, if they are able to complete the course requirements by the posted end date.



Students may enroll in a digital education virtual program after the start of the academic year through an application process.



Parents of a child with an Individualized Education Program (IEP), who apply for enrollment in a digital education virtual program, will meet with the IEP Team to determine if their child’s IEP can be met through the virtual learning courses.



Pending program availability, students enrolled in a digital education virtual program may elect to continue their enrollment for the following school year or return to their designated home school.



Students who do not successfully earn credit in digital education courses, may be denied enrollment in future courses. Parents may appeal in writing to the school administrator and the Innovative Pathways Program Office before enrolling.




III. Supervision, Attendance and Participation





Schools may schedule students in digital education courses at a physical school during or outside the school day. When a digital education course is scheduled during the school day, students must be supervised by HCPSS school-based employees.


HCPSS school-based employees supervising digital education students are responsible for:


IV. Fees





There are no fees for a digital education virtual program as it is the student’s primary instruction. Supplemental courses taken outside of a digital education virtual program may be subject to fees and are the responsibility of the parent.



HCPSS will provide fee information for HCPSS and non-HCPSS digital education supplemental courses, which may include application fees, course material fees, or tuition.




HCPSS students who meet the eligibility requirements are not responsible for course fees.



HCPSS students who do not meet the eligibility requirements, or exceed the registration course limit, may enroll in additional approved courses with an online learning provider under a separate agreement that requires the parent to pay any tuition or course fees.




V. Curriculum Review, Design and Development



HCPSS will use the following to inform digital education courses:


VI. HCPSS Teacher Criteria





HCPSS employees teaching digital education courses will meet the certification requirements determined by the MSDE and HCPSS. Teachers will complete required professional learning focusing on digital teaching and learning.



HCPSS employees teaching asynchronous digital education courses will meet the following criteria:




Completed online teaching preparation course.



Completed a digital education mentoring experience.




VII. School Responsibilities





Designated home schools will provide programs and services such as meals, extracurricular opportunities, special education, and related services to students enrolled in a digital education virtual program. Some services may be provided at a physical location through a face-to-face provider as determined by the IEP. The digital education virtual program will designate HCPSS school-based employees to coordinate services with the appropriate staff from the student’s designated home school.



HCPSS school-based employees will assist the Innovative Pathways Program Office in disseminating digital education program information to students, parents, HCPSS school-based employees, and administration. HCPSS employees may also facilitate:




Site-based mentoring.



Scheduling digital education student supervision.



Monitoring academic progress.




VIII. Technology Access





Students using a personal device or HCPSS-owned device are responsible for the use of the device in accordance with Policy 8080 Responsible Use of Technology, Digital Tools, and Social Media and the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



Students using an HCPSS-owned device are required to complete an HCPSS Device Agreement Form.




IX. Grading and Progress Reporting





Grading and progress reporting for digital education courses will apply based on how and when the course is taken:




Students enrolled in synchronous digital education courses during the school day are subject to the grading and reporting guidelines outlined in Policy 8020 Grading and Reporting: Middle and High School.



Students enrolled in asynchronous and blended digital education courses are subject to the grading and reporting guidelines outlined in Policy 8020 Grading and Reporting: Middle and High School with modifications, such as:




Marking Period




The start and end dates for course instruction may be different from the traditional school calendar.



Marking period grades will be earned by semester.




X. Program Reporting





HCPSS will provide program data on the status of digital education to the Board and MSDE which may include the following:




Number of digital education student enrollment.



Number and type of courses taken.



Completion/retention data.



Stakeholder survey data.



HCPSS employee digital education teacher summary.



Non-HCPSS employed digital education teacher summary.




XI. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


XII. History



ADOPTED: January 12, 2017
