
I. Annual Notification





The HCPSS will publish attendance information annually in the Student/Parent Handbook and post current attendance guidelines and procedures on the school system’s website.



The principal will inform all students, parents, and Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees of the provisions of this policy annually and at other times as appropriate. This may be done in the following ways:




Making announcements via the public address system at the beginning of the school year.



Publishing the information in school newsletters and on approved electronic communication platforms.



Publishing the information in HCPSS employee/student handbooks.



Posting the information on a bulletin board and/or school’s website.



Making the information available for new students through the registration process.




II. School Procedures



Recognizing administrators’ and teachers’ responsibility for maintaining a system to record and report student absences (lawful and unlawful/excused and unexcused), the following procedures are required for all schools:


III. Lawful/Excused Absence



Students presently enrolled in public schools are considered lawfully absent from school, including absence for any portion of the day, and may receive make-up work under the following conditions:


IV. Unlawful/Unexcused Absence



An absence for any reason other than those cited as lawful are presumed as unlawful and may constitute truancy (COMAR 13A.08.01.04).


V. Supports and Interventions





School-wide informational sessions will be conducted to share the expectations of the HCPSS Policy 9010 Attendance and its connection and correlation to student’s academic and social success. Information sessions can be communicated through new student orientation, student assemblies, information pamphlets, school website, etc. within the first few weeks of school.



The HCPSS attendance strategies will be implemented school-wide to encourage attendance for all students.



Interventions will be put in place for students who need more support to avoid or improve chronic absenteeism.




The principal will ensure that designated HCPSS school-based employees will initiate a “call of care and concern” to parents when a student misses two unexcused consecutive days or reaches a 5% absence rate to identify how the school can assist the family.



Administrators will identify students with multiple absences and will send letters home at 5%, 10%, and 20% unless the school has notification of a student’s chronic medical condition and interventions are currently in place.



Members of the team will develop, implement and regularly monitor an attendance improvement plan that may include the following:


A parent/teacher/student conference focused on assessing the needs of the student will be requested if a student experiences absenteeism rates of 15% or more in order to assess the needs of the student in connection with attendance and academic success.


VI. Monitoring



Policy 9010 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VII. History



ADOPTED: April 23, 1992
