
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes that providing opportunities for student expression is an integral part of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) program. Students have the right to exercise freedom of speech and freedom of the press in school-sponsored publications, subject to certain legal restrictions. The Board also recognizes its responsibility to the schools, students, and community to ensure that school-sponsored publications, productions, and media which provide a vehicle for student expression are consistent with legal requirements, HCPSS policies and procedures, civil discourse, and professional standards.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines related to school-sponsored student publications, productions, and media.


III. Standards





Instruction and direction will promote responsible practices that conform to accepted professional standards and ethics in the creation and dissemination of publications and communications.



A student may exercise freedom of speech and freedom of the press in school-sponsored media subject to certain restrictions as outlined in Section III.C. below.



The school system, through the HCPSS administrators, may only disapprove part or all of a school-sponsored publication or production if the content or activity:




Is libelous or slanderous;



Constitutes an unwarranted invasion of privacy;



Violates federal or state law;



Might reasonably be perceived to advocate intolerance or illegal or prohibited activities, including alcohol, drug, or tobacco use, violence, and discrimination;



Incites students to:




Create a clear and present danger of the commission of an unlawful act,



Violate HCPSS policies, or



Materially and substantially disrupt the orderly operation of school activities;




IV. Responsibilities





The principal will ensure that:




All school-sponsored publications and productions comply with this policy.



The established process through which a student may appeal a decision related to a publication or production is communicated to students.



Each school-sponsored publication and production has an advisor/sponsor.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Tinker v. Des Moines, Ind. Sch. Distr., 393 U.S. 503 (1969)



Bethel School District v. Fraser, 478 U.S. 675 (1986)



Hazelwood School Dist. v. Kuhlmeier, 44 U.S. 260 (1988)



Morse v. Frederick, 551 U.S. 393 (2007)



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article ยง 4-205



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article ยง 7-121



Maryland Declaration of Rights, Article 40 (Freedom of Press and Speech)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: October 9, 1973
