
I. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


II. Rights Under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)





Parents and Eligible Students have the following rights under FERPA:




The right to inspect, review, and receive a copy of the student’s education records within 45 calendar days of the day the school receives a request for access.



The right to request the amendment of the student’s education records that are believed to be inaccurate or misleading or violate the privacy rights of the student.



The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information (PII) contained in the student’s education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent.



The right to file a complaint with the Family Policy Compliance Office of the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures by the school to comply with the requirements of FERPA.




III. Student Records





FERPA-Protected Student Education Records


The HCPSS safeguards the student education records that are protected under FERPA.


IV. Maintenance and Security of Student Records





All records related to students will be stored securely and will be accessible only to HCPSS Board members and school system officials with a legitimate educational interest.




All records related to a student in physical format will be stored in a secure, lockable location.



All records related to a student in an electronic format will be password protected.




V. Management of Student Records





Reviewing and Updating Student Education Records


Reviewing and updating a student education record will ensure that student education records are relevant and accurate.


VI. Access to FERPA-Protected Student Education Records





Annual Notification


The HCPSS will annually publish a notice by such means that are reasonably likely to inform parents and eligible students of their rights under this policy. Where possible, the school system will arrange to provide translations of this notice to non-English speaking parents in their native language, and to provide effective notification to disabled parents or eligible students. The notice will include the following:


VII. Confidentiality and Disclosure





Disclosure of Directory Information




Directory information may be disclosed without the consent of the parent, as provided in FERPA and COMAR.



In accordance with section 4-313 of the General Provisions Article, Annotated Code of Maryland (Public Information Act (PIA)), the HCPSS, in response to a PIA request, will deny inspection of an HCPSS FERPA-protected student education record about the home address, home telephone number, biography, family, physiology, religion, academic achievement, or physical or mental ability of a student. However, student phone numbers and home addresses may be released without parental consent, in response to a PIA request to:




An organization of parents, teachers, students, or former students, or any combination of those groups, of the school;



A person engaged by a school or Board of Education to confirm a home address or home phone number;



An organization or force of the military;



A representative of a community college in the state; or



The Maryland Higher Education Commission.




XI. History



ADOPTED: April 29, 1975
