
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes its responsibility to maintain accurate records related to students, to protect the confidentiality and privacy of all records related to students, and to secure all records related to students except where federal, state, and local laws and regulations provide for disclosure.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish standards and procedures for maintenance of confidentiality, disclosure of information, and security of all records related to students, in accordance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations. This policy also assures compliance with the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) regarding individual student’s education records.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





All HCPSS Board members and school system officials will adhere to federal, state, and local laws and regulations as well as HCPSS policies, procedures, and guidelines for maintaining the accuracy, integrity, quality, and confidentiality of all records related to students in any format and location.



The storage, retention, and destruction of all records related to students will adhere to the guidelines outlined in the Maryland State Department of Education Student Records Manual,
Policy 3050 Records Management
, and HCPSS procedures.



The HCPSS will notify parents and students annually of the rights of parents and students regarding the inspection, review, amendment, and disclosure of students’ education records, rights regarding directory information, as well as their right to file complaints related to these rights with the Family Policy Compliance Office of the U.S. Department of Education.



Individual student’s education records that are maintained by teachers and other HCPSS school system officials are confidential by law. Access to such student education records may be granted only for the purpose of serving legitimate educational interest as specifically permitted under FERPA.




V. Responsibilities





All HCPSS Board members and school system officials will maintain the confidentiality of all records related to students.



HCPSS Board members and school system officials may disclose a student’s PII to appropriate parties in connection with an emergency if knowledge of the PII is necessary to protect the health or safety of the student or other individuals.



HCPSS Board members and school system officials may disclose a student’s PII as outlined in
Policy 1030 Child Abuse and Neglect
.



The Superintendent/Designee will monitor standards and procedures related to the confidentiality of all records related to students as set forth in federal, state, and local laws, regulations and policies.



The Superintendent/Designee will inform students, school system officials, and parents annually of the general provisions of this policy.



Principals will protect the confidentiality of all active or inactive records related to students that are stored in their schools.



Principals will review the standards and procedures related to the confidentiality of student education records and disclosure of directory information with the appropriate employees.



Principals will certify annually the accuracy of student data maintained in student education records in their schools as mandated by the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE) and the HCPSS.



Principals will assign and oversee personnel trained to monitor the maintenance, review, updating, retention, and destruction of all records related to students in their schools.



Principals will secure archived gradebooks in their schools until eligible for destruction in accordance with policy.



The Office of Student Services will provide annual training to designated HCPSS school system officials regarding procedures for protecting the confidentiality of all records related to students.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. §1232g



FERPA Regulations – 34 CFR Part 99



Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), Public Law 104-191



Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. §1400 et seq.



IDEA Regulations – 34 CFR 300.501, 300.615, 300.618, and 300.619



Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Section 504), 29 U.S.C. §794



Section 504 Regulations – 34 CFR 104.36



Internal Revenue Code of 1954, 26 U.S.C. §152



McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, Reauthorization 2002



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-101(c) (Informal Kinship Care)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-303 (Reportable Offenses)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-424 (Reporting Incidents of Harassment)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §7-424.2 (Gangs and gang activity)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, §8-412 (Parent Surrogates)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, §5-704 (Report of Abuse or Neglect – By health practitioner, police officer, educator, or human service worker)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, §5-507



The Annotated Code of Maryland, General Provision Article, §4-313 (Inspection of Student Records)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Human Services Article, §1-202 (Confidentiality of information – Child abuse and neglect reports and records)



COMAR 13A.05.01, Programs for Students with Disabilities



COMAR 13A.08.01.08, Substance Use or Distribution



COMAR 13A.08.01.17, School Use of Reportable Offenses



COMAR 13A.08.02, Student Records



COMAR 13A.08.07, Transfer of Educational Records for Children in State-Supervised Care




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 29, 1975
