
I. Definitions





Fall Sports Season –  The Maryland Public Secondary Schools Athletic Association (MPSSAA) August start date until the final date of the county, conference, district, regional, or State tournament.



Winter Sports Season – November 15 until the final date of the local conference, district, regional, or State tournament. When November 15 falls on Sunday, practice will start the preceding Saturday.



Spring Sports Season – March 1 until the final date of the local conference, district, regional, or State tournament. When March 1 falls on Sunday, practice will start the preceding Saturday.




II. Grade Reporting Periods





High schools will determine which 10th, 11th, and 12th graders are eligible in the fall by using the grades of the final marking period of the preceding June. All schools will determine winter and spring eligibility by the grades earned on the designated date closest to November 15 and March 1.



Without regard to their middle school grades, all incoming 9th graders are eligible for fall extracurricular activities.




III. Summer School





For calculating eligibility, review and original credit course grades earned in summer school will be used in lieu of the grade earned in the same course during the fourth marking period.




A student may enroll in an original credit course in summer school for the purpose of receiving full credit for the course if he/she has completed the eighth grade and has never been enrolled in the course or has previously been enrolled in the course and failed more than two quarters.



A student may enroll in a review credit course in summer school if he/she has completed the course and passed at least two quarters.




IV. Transfer Students





Within County


A student transferring to a different school within Howard County will use the grade report from the prior school to determine eligibility for that specific activity.


V. Special Education Students





If a special education student becomes academically ineligible to participate in extracurricular activities, the student and/or his/her parent/guardian may contact the principal of the school and request convening an Individualized Education Program (IEP) team meeting to determine whether or not the student’s ineligibility is the direct result of not being provided a Free and Appropriate Public Education (FAPE) and that the failure to provide FAPE led to the student being academically ineligible.



The IEP team will convene at the earliest possible date following receipt of a request.




In the case of athletic activities, the student may begin practicing with the team once the request is made to the principal. The student may not participate in any games until the IEP team determines that ineligibility should be waived.



In the case of nonathletic activities, the student may begin participating in preparatory activities (e.g., practices, rehearsals, etc.) once the request is made to the principal. The student may not participate in special events associated with that activity (e.g., performances, field trips, etc.) until the IEP team determines that ineligibility should be waived.




VI. Students with a 504 Plan





If a student with a 504 Plan becomes academically ineligible to participate in extracurricular activities, the student and/or his/her parent/guardian may contact the principal of the school to request that the local 504 team convene to determine whether a failure to provide the student FAPE led to the student’s ineligibility.



The 504 team will convene at the earliest possible date following receipt of a request.




In the case of athletic activities, the student may begin practicing with the team once the request is made to the principal. The student may not participate in any games until and unless the 504 team determines that the ineligibility should be waived.



In the case of nonathletic activities, the student may begin participating in the preparatory activities (e.g., practices, rehearsals, etc.) once the request is made to the principal. The student may not participate in special events associated with the activity (e.g., performances, field trips, etc.) until the 504 team determines that the ineligibility should be waived.




VII. History



ADOPTED: July 23, 1981
