
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to providing a well-rounded program of education-based student activities for high school students as a complement to the academic program. The Board further recognizes that to best carry out the vision and mission of the school system, extracurricular activities will not, in any way, supplant academics as the primary focus of the school system.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish minimum academic criteria that must be met by high school students in order to be eligible to participate in school-sponsored extracurricular activities.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





This policy governs minimum academic eligibility for student participation in extracurricular activities for which there is a HCPSS contracted sponsor. There are no academic eligibility standards for extracurricular activities participation when participation is required as part of a course and for clubs and activities with a sponsor not contracted by HCPSS.



For high school, a full-time student earns academic eligibility to participate in extracurricular activities by maintaining a 2.0 grade-point average (GPA), calculated using credit or non-credit courses, with no more than one failing grade for the marking period which governs eligibility for that activity.




This provision does not apply to incoming 9th grade students for fall eligibility.



Incomplete grades must be converted to a letter grade to determine eligibility. ()



If a student withdraws from a course, the grades at the time of withdrawal will be used in determining academic eligibility.




V. Responsibilities





A student participating in athletics and his/her parent/guardian will certify the student’s academic eligibility by signing the HCPSS participation form prior to participation.



Sponsors will verify the academic eligibility of each student who desires to participate in a nonathletic extracurricular activity prior to the first activity participation.



Athletic coaches will verify the academic eligibility of each athlete who desires to participate on their team prior to the tryouts.



Athletics and Activities Managers (AAM) will verify the academic eligibility of each athlete participating on athletic teams at his/her school prior to the first game.



The principal/designee will certify that all students participating in a nonathletic extracurricular activity meet academic eligibility requirements prior to the first activity.



The principal/designee will certify that each athlete representing his/her school meets the HCPSS’s academic eligibility requirements prior to the first game.



The Superintendent/Designee will provide a list of system-paid sponsors.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is directed to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Free and Appropriate Public Education (FAPE)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article §5-112



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article §7-101 (c) Kinship Care



Family Law Article §5-507




VIII. History



ADOPTED: July 23, 1981
