
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the importance and value of an education-based interscholastic athletic program as part of the total educational program. The Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) strives to cultivate an environment that values and respects the diverse population within our schools and will promote inclusion and equity through sport.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish criteria for implementing the interscholastic athletic program.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The goals for students who participate in the HCPSS interscholastic athletic program include:




Developing feelings of self-worth



Learning appropriate behavior when working with others by demonstrating good sportsmanship



Learning to cooperate in a competitive context



Learning to understand and control emotions



Developing good health habits



Improving physical fitness



Learning sports skills



Learning to appreciate diversity, equity, and inclusion.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/Designee will develop regulations and procedures for compliance with the standards of this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will direct the implementation of the interscholastic athletic program and interpret the rules and regulations for this policy as well as any other applicable policies.



The principal and athletics and activities manager will supervise and administer the interscholastic athletic program in their school.



Contracted coaches will organize and administer Board-approved interscholastic teams in the school.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Title 13A, State Board of Education; subtitle .06, Supporting Programs;



Chapter 03, Interscholastic Athletics in Maryland, approved August 14, 1989



Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-318



The Fitness and Athletic Equity for Students with Disabilities Act of 2008




VIII. History



ADOPTED: February 6, 1973
