
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) recognizes its responsibility to provide appropriate educational programs for pregnant students in accordance with state regulations and Title IX requirements. The Board further recognizes the Howard County Public School System’s (HCPSS) responsibility to provide equity and access for all students in a supportive school environment.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide direction regarding educational programs for pregnant and parenting students.


III. Standards





In accordance with Title IX, HCPSS will not discriminate against an enrolled student in academic or non-academic activities because of pregnancy, birth of a child, false pregnancy, miscarriage, termination of pregnancy, or recovery from any of these conditions.



Pregnant Student Over the Compulsory School Age




A student over the compulsory school age who has not completed a high school education may elect to remain in their school and may not be involuntarily excluded from any part of the program or withdrawn from school.



Any decision to modify the program or provide the student an appropriate alternative educational program as described in Section III.D. below, will be reached in joint consultation with the student, appropriate educational and medical personnel, and the student’s parent(s), if the student elects to include the parent(s).




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure the policy is included in the school system’s student handbook.



The Office of Student Services will ensure that pregnant and parenting students are informed of their educational rights under this policy.



School administrators will ensure that HCPSS employees review this policy annually.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth by this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Federal Family Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), as amended – 20 U.S.C. §1232g, and its Regulations – 34 CFR Part 99



Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)



Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972



The Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 4-139



The Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-301.1



The Md. Ann. Code, Health-General Article, Section 4-301, et seq.



The Md. Ann. Code, Health-General Article, Section 20-102



COMAR 13A.03.02.09-1. Appeal of Denial of Diploma for Failure to Meet Maryland High School Assessment Requirement



COMAR 13A.08.01.03



COMAR 13A.08.02, Student Records




VIII. History



ADOPTED: August 3, 1971
