
I. Confidentiality and Disclosure





Under the Annotated Code of Maryland, Health-General Article, Section 20-102, a minor has the same capacity as an adult to consent to treatment for, or advice about pregnancy.


This treatment or advice is confidential and may not be disclosed without the student’s consent.


II. Educational Decision-Making





The school counselor and nurse will work collaboratively with pregnant or parenting students (or students who reportedly may be pregnant) to:




Communicate student rights under this policy.



Ensure that the student is aware of possible program modifications or alternative educational programs.



Outline types of support available through the school system and associated eligibility guidelines.



Provide appropriate community resource information.



Provide assistance in accessing programs and resources.




III. Other Support Services





The nurse, in consultation with the school counselor or pupil personnel worker, will consider the following when developing a support plan for the pregnant student:




The student’s age and developmental level.



Whether child/sexual abuse or criminal assault is involved.



The student’s parent(s) awareness of the pregnancy and their level of support.



The student’s access to health care.



The student’s access to safe, affordable, and reliable childcare.



The student’s access to early education services.



The student’s access to transportation services to and from school.




IV. Educational Programs





Pregnant and parenting students will be made aware that a regional center and outreach services are available.



Outreach services are available in their home school for all pregnant and parenting students.



High school students seeking to enroll in the regional program for parenting students will be referred to the program facilitator. Parental consent is required for enrollment of minor students.



School counselors will inform students of all possible alternative pathways to graduation.



Students requesting home and hospital services before or after delivery will be referred to the Home and Hospital Teaching Office.




V. Monitoring



Policy 9100 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


VI. History



ADOPTED: September 13, 1990
