
I. Policy Statement



The Howard County Board of Education is committed to providing a safe, engaging, and supportive school environment. The Board believes that the teaching of expected school behaviors is the shared responsibility of Howard County Public Schools (HCPSS) staff, parents, and community members. The Board believes in an environment where clear expectations for appropriate behaviors are communicated, appropriate behavior is taught, and inappropriate behaviors are addressed in a manner that is conducive to learning.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish and communicate disciplinary procedures and guidelines to staff, students, parents, and the community.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





This policy applies to all students while on school property, during a school-related activity, and/or otherwise subject to the authority of the HCPSS.  This includes, but is not limited to, school buses, bus stops, school-sponsored events, field trips, athletic functions, and any other activity where school administrators have jurisdiction over students. This policy also applies to off-campus incidents in accordance with  Policy 9280 Students Charged with Community or Reportable Offenses and Policy 1060 Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, or Intimidation.



The HCPSS Student Code of Conduct will establish the standards for student behavior and disciplinary consequences for violations of those standards.



Students will be accorded due process by an administrator before discipline is administered.  Due process includes:




Gathering Facts:




Meeting with the student.



Informing the student of the allegations in a manner that ensures the student understands the allegations (ex. language, disability, age).



Presenting and/or explaining the evidence to the student.



Allowing the student an opportunity to present his/her version of the incident.  Students will be encouraged, but not required, to provide a written or transcribed statement.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/Designee will ensure staff receives training and resources necessary to implement this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will notify all school administrators annually of the provisions of this policy.



The Superintendent/Designee will ensure students, parents, school security guards, staff members, and School Resource Officers are notified of the provisions of this policy annually.



Principals/designees and the Superintendent/Designee will determine appropriate disciplinary action for a student based on the severity of the infraction and on a range of consequences.



Principals/designees and the Superintendent/Designee will ensure that students with IEPs will receive a FAPE during extended suspensions and/or expulsions.



Principals will ensure violations of criminal statutes are reported to the appropriate officials of the Howard County Police Department and the MSDE.



Principals will ensure disciplinary records are maintained according to school system policy and approved procedures.



Students will comply with all school rules and procedures and will exhibit the expected student behaviors delineated in the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




18 U.S.C. §921 and §924



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Family Law Article, Section 5-507 (License for child placement agency)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-101(c) (Informal kinship care)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-305 (Suspensions and expulsions)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-305.1 (Student enrolled in public prekindergarten program, kindergarten, first grade, or second grade – Suspension or expulsions prohibited; exceptions)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-305.6 (Corporal Punishment and Code of Conduct)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-307 (Principals, teachers, and school guards intervening in fights)



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-308 (Searches of students and schools)



COMAR 13A.05.01, Provision of a Free Appropriate Public Education



COMAR 13A.08.01.11, Disciplinary Action



COMAR 13A.08.01.15, Reporting Delinquent Acts



COMAR 13A.08.01.17, School Use of Reportable Offenses




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 21, 1989
