
I. Definitions



Within the context of these procedures, the following definitions apply:


II. Interventions and Supports for Student Behavior





Staff will receive annual training and resources necessary to ensure a safe, engaging, and supportive learning environment.




The training and resources provided to staff will address:




The contents and requirements of this policy as well as Students’ Rights and Responsibilities.



Prevention and a continuum of intervention/support techniques designed to promote expected school behaviors and discourage students from engaging in behaviors that interfere with the provision of a safe, engaging, and supportive environment.




III. Investigation/Reports





A school administrator will investigate any alleged violation of the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct in a timely manner and complete the required incident report.



If, at the conclusion of the investigation, the school administrator determines there has been a violation of the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct and/or Board policy, consequent action will be in accordance with the provisions of this policy, Policy 9020 Students’ Rights and Responsibilities, and the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



All data from incident reports will be entered into the student records management system.



Copies of disciplinary referrals describing students’ behavioral violations will be kept in each student’s cumulative file.




IV. Non-Exclusionary Consequences





General Procedures




Staff/Administrator Response


For minor behavioral infractions, school staff and school administrators may respond to students in a manner that does not require parental notification. These responses may include actions such as a verbal reprimand, assigning the student to a brief period of time-out, withholding privileges, requiring a conference with the student, or assigning detention during the school day.


V. Suspensions of Up to Ten School (10) Days



The following provisions and procedures apply, for each offense, for all students except those receiving special education services or having 504 Plans.


VI. Alternative Educational Setting



The following provisions and procedures apply, for each offense, for all students except those receiving special education services or having 504 Plans.


VII. Suspensions of More Than Ten (10) School Days and Expulsions



The following provisions and procedures apply, for each offense, for all students except those receiving special education services or having 504 Plans.


VIII. Students Receiving Special Education Services



When a student is receiving special education services the following procedures apply when considering disciplinary consequences, which would exclude the student from normal school activities.


IX. Suspension of Students With 504 Plans



When a student has a 504 Plan, the following procedures apply when considering disciplinary consequences, which would exclude the student from normal school activities.


X. School Bus Transportation



The following procedures apply for all students who ride a school bus which include, but are not limited to, transportation to and from school, and all school-related activities:


VIII. and IX. of these Implementation Procedures.



XI. History



ADOPTED: November 21, 1989
