
I. Dissemination of Information





The school-based administrator/designee will annually notify all students, staff, parents, volunteers, and service providers that weapons are prohibited on school property, on school buses, in a vehicle located on school property, and at school-sponsored activities. Notification may be:




Given via an announcement over the public address system at the beginning of the school year and at other times as deemed appropriate.



Published in the school newsletter and/or student/parent/faculty handbooks.



Posted for students and staff (e.g., on bulletin boards in the main office, teachers’ lounge, guidance office, and other commonly used areas).



Published with school lunch menus.




II. Student Violation of Policy





If a person suspects that a student is in violation of this weapons policy, he or she should immediately report the student and a description of the incident to a school-based administrator/designee, who will determine if a violation has occurred.



If a school-based administrator/designee determines that a student is in possession of a weapon, the school-based administrator/designee will assess the severity of the situation and take appropriate action as follows:




If the student is in possession of a firearm or other weapon that poses a serious and immediate threat to the student or others, the school-based administrator/designee will isolate the student, and/or secure the area, and contact the local law enforcement agency.



If the student is in possession of a weapon that does not pose a serious and immediate threat to the student or others, the school-based administrator/designee will secure the weapon.



Disciplinary action will be taken using the Student Code of Conduct and in accordance with
Policy 9200 Student Discipline
.



The school-based administrator/designee may, without revealing the identity of the student(s) involved, inform the PTA president and/or the school community of incidents involving the presence of weapons on school property or at school-sponsored activities.




III. Non-Student Violation of Policy





If a person suspects that someone other than a student is in violation of this weapons policy, he/she should immediately report the person and a description of the incident to a school-based administrator/designee or supervisor who will determine if a violation has occurred.



If a school-based administrator/designee or supervisor determines that a person other than a student is in possession of a weapon, the school-based administrator/designee or supervisor will assess the severity of the situation and take appropriate action as follows:




If the non-student is in possession of a firearm or other weapon that poses a serious and immediate threat to others, the school-based administrator/designee or supervisor will contact the local law enforcement agency.



If the non-student is in possession of a weapon that does not pose a serious and immediate threat to others, the school-based administrator/designee or supervisor will secure the weapon.




IV. Other



With prior approval of the school-based administrator/designee, permanently inoperable weapons of significance may be brought to school as part of an instructional activity.


V. History



ADOPTED: January 25, 1990
