
I. Announcements, Dissemination, Training and Review





Notification regarding the provisions of Policy 9260 and these procedures will be provided at least annually to all students, families, and employees. Principals are responsible for notifying all students, families, and employees in their schools. Notification may be through these channels:




Announced in schools over the public address system at the beginning ofthe school year and at other times deemed appropriate.



Published in school and system newsletters and/or handbooks.



Posted on school and system websites.



Reviewed with students by classroom teachers or other appropriateemployees.



Provided to new students and parents through the registration process.




II. Authority to Search





Designation of Authorized Searcher




Authorized Searchers will receive annual training on Policy 9260 by the Superintendent/designee. Participation of training by Authorized Searchers will be documented and maintained centrally. Authorized Searchers includes the following:




Principal or assistant principal (or the person serving in the position of principal or assistant principal in the absence of the principal or assistant principal).



Security assistant under the direction of the principal or assistant principal.



Teacher on a school-sponsored trip who has been so designated in writing by the principal and who has been trained in conducting searches.


In the event that the person in charge of students is not an Authorized Searcher and has reasonable belief that a student has an item, the possession or use of which is a criminal offense or a violation of any law, HCPSS policy, or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct, the person in charge will do one of the following:


III. Parental Notification of a Search



Prior to conducting a search of a student or a student’s possessions, the principal or principal’s designee will attempt to contact the student’s parent. Parent contact may take place following the search of a student or a student’s possession when there is a need for an immediate search that would be jeopardized by a delay. The principal or principal’s designee will explain the reason for a search and will inform the parent of any administrative action pending or being applied.
The purpose of the contact is to inform the parent of the administrative search, and not a request for consent to search.


IV. Searches Requested by Law Enforcement



Credible information provided by a law enforcement officer may form the basis for an Authorized Searcher to acquire reasonable belief to conduct a search. However, an Authorized Searcher may not conduct a search of a student based solely on the request of a law enforcement officer.


V. Items That May Be the Object of a Search



The purpose of a search must be for an item, the possession or use of which is suspected to be a criminal offense or a violation of any law, HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct. Such items include but are not limited to weapons, including look-alike and non-deadly weapons, controlled dangerous substances, medications or over-the-counter medications, drug paraphernalia, alcoholic beverages, explosive devices, fireworks, stolen items, tobacco products and personal technology devices that are used in violation of HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.


VI. Search of a Student





Prior to conducting a search of a student or a student’s possessions, the principal or principal’s designee will attempt to contact the student’s parent prior to the start of the search by the Authorized Searcher.



The Authorized Searcher will begin a search by informing the student that he/she has a reasonable belief that the student is in possession of (the Authorized Searcher will then state the object of the search to the student) and explain the anticipated scope of the search.



A search of a student and/or a student’s possessions will be made in the presence of a third party, who is an HCPSS employee, parent, or SRO.



Whenever reasonably possible, a student self-search should be the default search option. A student may be required to empty the student’s pockets, purse, wallet, backpack, etc. The Authorized Searcher is permitted to conduct a search subsequent to any student self-search.



Students will be asked to identify which available Authorized Searcher they would prefer when a pat down needs to be conducted unless there is a need for an immediate search that would be jeopardized by a delay. The pat down of a student must avoid breasts, buttocks, and the pelvic/groin area.



Strip searches by Authorized Searchers are prohibited.




VII. Search of a Student Vehicle



A student’s vehicle and its contents on school property may be searched by an Authorized Searcher when an impermissible item is in plain view, the Authorized Searcher has reasonable belief that an impermissible item is in the vehicle, or when the student consents. The Authorized Searcher may also contact law enforcement, as needed, based on the suspected item or the student’s conduct.


VIII. Search of School Property Assigned to a Student for School Use



An Authorized Searcher may search property assigned to a student for school use at any time. This includes, but is not limited to, lockers, desks, technology devices, instruments, athletic equipment, and cubbies.


IX. Items That May Be the Object of Seizure



The purpose of seizing student property must be for an item, the possession or use of which is suspected to be a violation of any law, HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct. Such items include but are not limited to weapons, including look-alike and non-deadly weapons, controlled dangerous substances, medications or over-the-counter medications, drug paraphernalia, alcoholic beverages, explosive devices, fireworks, stolen items, tobacco products and personal technology devices that are used in violation of HCPSS policy or the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.


X. Refusal to Allow Search and Seizure



A student’s refusal to cooperate with an Authorized Searcher at any time during a search of the student or of their possessions deemed to be detrimental to the security, discipline, or sound administration of the school is in violation of the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct and may result in disciplinary action.


XI. Searches on Field Trips





Training will be provided for Authorized Searchers on the appropriate process of conducting a search under the provisions of this policy.



A teacher on a field trip designated in writing as an Authorized Searcher by the principal/designee may conduct a search of a student under the provisions of this policy as long as the requirements of Section XI.A. of these implementation procedures have been met.



HCPSS employees designated as Authorized Searchers will implement the provisions of this policy on travel if the Authorized Searcher has reasonable belief that the student has in the student’s possessions an item, the possession or use of which is a criminal offense under the laws of Maryland, or a violation of any other state law or any policy or regulation of the HCPSS.



Authorized Searchers will attempt to contact the principal or principal’s designee prior to conducting any search.



Inappropriate or illegal items found during the search should be seized by the Authorized Searcher and forwarded to the appropriate party in accordance with seizure procedures (Section IX. above).



If the student refuses to consent to a search, the Authorized Searcher should     follow the procedures in Section X. above and contact parents and inform the administration of the violation of the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct.



The Authorized Searcher should:




Contact the local law enforcement department if the items in question
pose an immediate threat to the safety of others.



When practical, attempt to contact the principal/designee prior to contacting the police.



Record the date and time local law enforcement were contacted.




XIII. Documentation of a Search



All data collected regarding searches will be centrally maintained in the HCPSS data management system and reported annually to the Superintendent and the Board of Education to assess effectiveness and compliance. When a student search is undertaken, the Authorized Searcher must record and/or collect the following information:


XIV. Monitoring



Policy 9260 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership and the Division of Operations.


XV. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


XVI. History



ADOPTED: May 11, 2006
