
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education recognizes the need for a school environment that is safe, secure, and nurturing. This environment must allow employees to be free from any assault and/or battery by students.  Therefore, any assault and/or battery by a student directed towards an employee or service provider is strictly forbidden.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to help ensure a safe and secure environment for all employees by outlining the process that administrators must use if a student engages in an assault and/or battery directed towards an employee or service provider.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





It is a violation of this policy for any student to assault and/or batter an employee or service provider at any time or any place.



Upon receipt of an oral/written report on a suspected policy violation, the Administrators will promptly begin a thorough investigation to include an interview with the accused, victim, and witness(es) and a review of any video footage that may provide evidence, if applicable.



Any disciplinary action taken for students as a result of a violation of this policy will be administered in accordance with the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct and Policy 9200 Student Discipline.



If a student receives special education services or has a 504 plan, procedures consistent with COMAR 13A.08.01.11 and HCPSS Policy 9200 Student Discipline Implementation Procedures Sections VIII. and IX. must be followed.



The policy regarding an assault and/or battery by a student on an employee or service provider will be made known to students, parents, and employees at the beginning of the school year and when deemed necessary by the principal.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will publish information on the standards and consequences of this policy.



Principals will disseminate information on the standards and consequences of this policy at their school.



Administrators will investigate reports of a student assault and/or battery on employees at their school.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. Reference



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 3-202



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 3-203



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 3-303



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 26-101 COMAR 13A.08.01.11




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 14, 1990
