
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is committed to ensuring that all children and youth have equal access to educational programs and school-related activities. To that end, the Board seeks to eliminate all barriers to the enrollment of children and youth who are homeless and eligible to attend public school in Howard County.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines to ensure that children and youth who are homeless are enrolled in the HCPSS without barriers and that they receive equal access to all educational programs and school-related activities.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The rights of all children and youth who are homeless and eligible for enrollment in the HCPSS will be protected in accordance with the McKinney-Vento Act.



Children and youth who are homeless are eligible for services described under Title I, Part A of the Elementary Students Education Act (ESEA), as amended by the Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA), whether or not they reside in a Title I school attendance area or meet the academic standards required of other children for eligibility.



Reasonable efforts will be made to identify all school-aged children and youth residing in Howard County who are homeless.



Students who are homeless will be enrolled in school as soon as information is received that the student is homeless.



Students who are homeless and become permanently housed during the school year will retain McKinney-Vento protections for the remainder of that school year.



Students who are homeless will be provided services comparable to the services offered to other students in the school in which the homeless student is enrolled.



Students who are homeless and meet academic eligibility requirements are eligible to participate in extracurricular activities, including interscholastic athletics.



Transportation will be provided for students who are homeless in accordance with requirements in the McKinney-Vento Act.



Food and nutrition services will be provided immediately upon the identification or enrollment of a student who is homeless.



Information will be provided annually for school-based staff regarding the McKinney-Vento Act, the unique needs of students who are homeless, and staff’s role in working with these students.



The HCPSS will designate a Homeless Education Liaison for students who are homeless.



The dispute resolution process will be used to resolve all disputes regarding enrollment, school selection, and services for students who are homeless.



The Homeless Advisory Committee will assist with coordination of delivery of services to children and youth who are homeless and enrolled in the HCPSS.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent will ensure that the provisions of the McKinney-Vento Act are followed.



Pupil Personnel Workers, in collaboration with the Homeless Education Liaison, will identify all school-aged children and youth who are homeless in Howard County, including those who have self-identified.



Principals will ensure the immediate enrollment of students who have been identified as homeless.



Principals, in collaboration with the Homeless Education Liaison, will ensure that students who are homeless are provided with comparable services offered to other students.



The Homeless Education Liaison and the Title I Coordinator will ensure that all children and youth who are homeless receive services comparable to Title I services and supports and that the local Title I plan describes the services and supports provided.



The Director of Transportation, in collaboration with the Homeless Education Liaison, will coordinate the transportation of students who are homeless attending Howard County public schools.



The Executive Director of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being will designate the Homeless Education Liaison.



The Director of Food and Nutrition, in collaboration with the Homeless Education Liaison, will immediately coordinate the food and nutrition services as soon as the homeless student is enrolled.



The Homeless Education Liaison will ensure that the dispute resolution process is used to resolve all disputes regarding enrollment, school selections, and services for students who are homeless.



The Homeless Education Liaison will ensure that information is provided annually to school-based staff regarding the McKinney-Vento Act and the unique needs of students who are homeless.



The Homeless Education Liaison will chair the Homeless Advisory Committee.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, Reauthorization 2015 (Reauthorized in 2015 by the Every Student Succeeds Act)



COMAR 13.A.05.09



Family Law Article 5-507




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 9, 2011
