
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to providing a safe, engaging, and supportive school environment that fosters the social and emotional safety, dignity, and well-being of all students. The Board acknowledges the need for Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees to use an array of research-based positive behavior interventions, strategies, and a tiered system of supports to address student behaviors and keep students safe. The Board further acknowledges the need for HCPSS employees to minimize the practice of exclusion from the classroom environment and minimize the practice of physical restraint which may only be used after other less intrusive, nonphysical interventions have failed or been demonstrated inappropriate and when necessary to protect a student or other person from imminent, serious, physical harm. It is the expectation of the Board that HCPSS employees will be aware of and responsive to all incidents of exclusion or physical restraint and appropriately case manage impacted students to minimize unsafe behaviors and maximize instructional engagement.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to define the process by which the HCPSS promotes positive behavior interventions, strategies, and supports and adheres to a tiered system of proactive, positive behavior interventions in schools to ensure that in the use of exclusion as a form of student behavior intervention and physical restraint as a responsive crisis procedure is limited to necessary/critical situations as outlined in Section III.D.1 and Section III.E.1.


III. Standards





HCPSS employees will use effective classroom management strategies followed by a continuum of positive behavior interventions, strategies, and supports to increase or decrease targeted student behavior.



Students, parents, and HCPSS employees working directly with students may at any time request a meeting to consider the need to:




Conduct a Functional Behavior Assessment (FBA).



Develop, review, or revise a student’s Section 504 Plan, Individualized Education Program (IEP), or Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP).




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will implement this policy and will ensure that students, parents, and HCPSS employees are provided annual notice of the provisions of this policy.



The Departments of Special Education and Program Innovation and Student Well-Being will monitor the use of physical restraint.



School administrators and HCPSS supervisors will ensure that professional learning occurs annually for all HCPSS employees outlining the key components of this policy.



At the beginning of each school year, the principal/designee will identify a team of HCPSS employees who will receive professional development on student behavior interventions and serve as a schoolwide resource to assist in ensuring proper administration of this policy.



The principal will inform all HCPSS school-based employees that only trained and identified HCPSS employees may administer physical restraint.



The principal will inform all HCPSS school-based employees that use of prohibited methods is grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



The principal/designee will notify a parent both verbally and in writing, of an instance of physical restraint and the behavior that warranted the intervention.



The principal/designee will make every effort to notify a parent immediately, but no later than the day of the instance of physical restraint.



In cases whereby a student, HCPSS employee, or parent of a student feels there has been a violation or a misinterpretation of this policy or procedures, they should notify the principal and the Community Superintendent for the school.



The principal/designee and Community Superintendent will receive, investigate, and document complaints regarding exclusion and physical restraint practices.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy within the limits set forth in this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-306 and §7-307



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-1101-§7-1107



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §8-405



Md. Ann. Code, Family Law Article, §5-507



COMAR 13A.08.04, Student Behavior Interventions




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 8, 2017
