
I. General



To ensure a positive, safe, and orderly educational environment, the following continuum of positive behavior interventions, strategies, and supports is encouraged:


II. Functional Behavior Assessment (FBA)



A systematic process of gathering information to guide the development of an effective and efficient BIP for the problem behavior.


III. Use of Exclusion





For Howard County Public School System (HCPSS), exclusion is a short-term non-disciplinary, adult-directed separation of the student from the general classroom setting and/or instruction from their peers to a separate setting to:




Self-regulate



Reinforce self-regulation strategies



Problem-solve and/or



Regain self-control



During the separation, the student is supervised and/or monitored while in the separate setting but not receiving instruction, which includes general education, special education, behavioral support, or related services.




IV. Use of Physical Restraint





The use of physical restraint is prohibited in HCPSS unless physical restraint is necessary to protect the student or another individual from imminent, serious, physical harm and less intrusive, nonphysical interventions have failed or been demonstrated to be inappropriate for the student.




Physical restraint will only be implemented and monitored by HCPSS employees who are trained in the appropriate use of physical restraint:




Physical restraint is implemented in a humane, safe, and effective manner, without intent to harm or create undue discomfort, consistent with State regulations; and,



Restraint is consistent with known medical, traumatic, or psychological constraints and limitations and the student’s Section 504 Plan, IEP, or BIP.




V. Referral to a School’s SST, Section 504 Team, or IEP Team





If physical restraint is used for a student who has not been identified as a student with a disability, the student will immediately be referred to the school’s SST, Section 504 Team, or an IEP Team.



If physical restraint is used for a student with a disability, and the student’s Section 504 Team, IEP, or BIP does not include the use of physical restraint, the Section 504 Team or IEP Team will meet, within ten (10) business days of the incident to consider:




The need for an FBA;



Developing appropriate behavioral interventions;



Implementing a BIP;



Training for HCPSS employees; and



Revisions to the Section 504 Plan or IEP.




VI. Grievance Process



In cases whereby a student, HCPSS employee, or parent of a student feels there has been a violation or a misinterpretation of this policy or procedures, they should notify the principal and the Community Superintendent for the school.


VII. Professional Development





Identified HCPSS employees will receive training in current professionally acceptable practices and standards regarding:




Positive behavior interventions strategies and supports, including methods for identifying and defusing potentially dangerous behavior;



FBA and BIP planning;



Exclusion;



Physical restraint and alternatives to restraint;



Symptoms of physical distress and positional asphyxia;



Trauma-informed intervention;



First aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and



Individualized behavior interventions based on student characteristics, including disability, medical history and past trauma.




VIII. Monitoring



Policy 9400 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


IX. History



ADOPTED: June 8, 2017
