
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to providing a safe, engaging, productive, and supportive school environment that values diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Board is also committed to fostering a climate where individuals are valued and their safety and rights are protected. Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) school property should be places where students are treated with kindness and empathy, while building a relationship-focused, welcoming, supportive environment fostering academic and personal growth for all.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish expectations for maintaining a safe and respectful school climate where bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation on school property, at school-sponsored activities, or has a connection or nexus back to the school setting, are not tolerated. This purpose of the policy is to provide standards for what to do when a student is the target of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation and for identifying and preventing bullying, cyberbullying, harassing, or intimidating behavior.


III. Standards





The HCPSS will work to ensure that HCPSS school environments are free from incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation.



The display of symbols, images, language, materials, or items that demean an identifiable person or group or are reasonably perceived as promoting hatred, intimidation, or harassment, such as but not limited to, swastikas and confederate flag symbols, are prohibited on school property or at school-related activities and are subject to the standards of this policy.



HCPSS employees and school bus contractors will receive annual professional development on the provisions of this policy. This professional development will include supports for targeted students, prevention education, interventions and supports for students exhibiting bullying, cyberbullying, harassing, or intimidating behavior, as well as procedures for reporting bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation.



The prevention and intervention strategies of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation will be presented to all students in prekindergarten through grade twelve.



HCPSS will adhere to the Education Article §§7-424-424.3 of the Maryland Annotated Code.



All HCPSS schools will follow established procedures for bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation prevention, investigation, intervention, and provision of supports as outlined in the implementation procedures.



Students engaging in bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation will be subject to disciplinary and/or legal action.



In an effort to maintain a positive school culture, consequences for violations of this policy will be administered in accordance with Policy 9200 Student Discipline, the HCPSS Student Code of Conduct, and all applicable state and federal laws. Prior violations of this policy will be considered when determining consequences.



Retaliation against anyone who has reported bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation is prohibited and may be subject to disciplinary and/or legal action.



An HCPSS employee who reports an act of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation under the Education Article, Annotated Code of Maryland, §7-424.1 in accordance with the county board’s policy is not civilly liable for any act or omission in reporting or failing to report an act of bullying, harassment, or intimidation under this policy.



HCPSS will report incidents of bullying, harassment, or intimidation against students on public school property to the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE), in accordance with the Education Article §7-424.




IV. Responsibilities





The HCPSS will ensure the Bullying, Cyberbullying, Harassment, or Intimidation (BCHI) Form is used to report alleged incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation that occur on school property, at a school-sponsored activity, or have a connection or nexus back to the school setting that create a risk of harm to other students while they are at school, or interfere with the educational environment. The form will be made available electronically on the school system’s website as well as paper copies at each school.



The HCPSS will provide annual professional development for HCPSS employees and school bus contractors on the provisions of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that students, parents, HCPSS employees, and other individuals on school property are notified of the provisions of this policy annually.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that this policy is highlighted in the school system’s student handbook and on the HCPSS website.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure appropriate action is taken in response to a violation of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee and/or school administrators will ensure that all illegal behaviors are reported to the appropriate social service agencies, law enforcement agencies, and the MSDE.



School administrators/supervisors will notify those under their supervision of the provisions of this policy.



Students, parents, HCPSS employees, and other individuals on school property will report alleged incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, or intimidation.



School administrators/supervisors will ensure compliance with the Education Article §§7-424-424.3 of the Maryland Annotated Code.



School administrators/supervisors will take immediate action to protect targeted students regardless of how the alleged bullying is reported.



School administrators/supervisors will ensure that professional development regarding this policy occurs annually.



School administrators/supervisors will implement systemwide procedures for prevention and intervention of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation.



School administrators/supervisors will investigate and address all reported incidents of bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation in accordance with this policy and applicable laws.



School administrators, supervisors, or the Director of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being/designee will provide appropriate assistance to students, parents, and other individuals who have been affected by behavior prohibited in this policy.



The Department of Program Innovation and Student Well-Being will compile and report bullying, cyberbullying, harassment, and intimidation data to the Board.



All students, parents, HCPSS employees, and other individuals on school property will maintain a safe and supportive school climate.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Title IX of the Educational Amendments Act of 1972



Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Law Article, §3-805 “Grace’s Law”



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-424



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §7-424.1 and §7-424.3



COMAR 13A.01.04.03 – School Safety



COMAR 13A.08.01.15 – Reporting Delinquent Acts




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 11, 2009
