
I. Policy Value Statement



Recognizing the importance of public comments and suggestions on matters of educational interest, the Board of Education of Howard County (Board) confirms its commitment to community participation by scheduling public hearings and public forums during regular meetings. It is the intent of the Board to provide opportunities for individuals, groups, and organizations to express their views as well as to provide opportunities for individuals to hear the views of others.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to preserve the orderly transaction of business of the Board and to provide guidelines for effective, efficient, and responsible community input on educational issues during regular meetings of the Board.


III. Standards





Public Attendance




The Board will comply with the Open Meetings Act of Maryland.



Individuals, groups, and organizations are invited to attend and observe any open session of the Board, including work sessions, subject to space limitations.



Interpreters will be provided for meetings of the Board upon request for those who are hearing impaired or speakers of languages other than English. Requests should be submitted no later than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the meeting date.



No individual, group, or organization attending an open session may participate in the session except in instances when the presiding officer expressly invites public testimony, questions, comments, or other forms of public participation, or when public participation is otherwise authorized by law.




IV. Responsibilities





The presiding officer presides at all meetings and hearings and officially convenes and closes the public hearing and public forum portions of the meetings.



The Board of Education Office will pre-register individuals, groups, and organizations to speak at public hearings and public forums.



The Superintendent will ensure that an environment is available to provide efficient and fair public participation at all public hearings and regular Board meetings.




V. Delegation of Authority



Implementation of this policy resides with the Board.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C., Section 12101, et seq.



Md. Ann. Code, General Provisions Article, Section 3-101, et seq. (Open Meetings Act)



Md. Ann. Code, General Provisions Article, Section 4-101, et seq. (Public Information Act)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 25, 1990
