
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education believes that high-quality research is necessary to evaluate and improve educational programs and practices. The Board supports the use of research as a tool to contribute scholarship, the sciences, and the opportunity for staff to grow and learn. The Board also values student-led research to further inquiry-based learning and empower learners to engage in authentic learning experiences.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for how research within the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) is approved, conducted, and reported.


III. Standards





High-Quality Research


High-quality research proposals will articulate a clear purpose and methodological rigor and will be considered for approval based on its relevance to current school system goals and priorities. High-quality research includes the following:


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will:




Screen and evaluate external research proposals in accordance with this policy.



Handle all communication with those proposing to conduct external research.



Monitor the implementation of external research projects to ensure adherence to guidelines and timeframes.



Maintain a record of all submitted external research materials and decisions. For approved external research, maintain a record of submitted research reports.



Maintain a record of all approved action research materials submitted by supervisors/designees.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




National School Lunch Act, Public Law 79-396, Section 9 amended



Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20.U.S.C. §1232g; 34 C.F.R. Part 99



Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment (PPRA), 20 U.S.C. §1232h; 34 C.F.R. Part 98



COMAR 13A.08.02, Student Records



The Annotated Code of Maryland, State Government Article, Section 10-616 and Section 10-617



Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) Exceptions -  20 U.S.C. §1232g(b)and(h)–(j)and 34 CFR§



Md. Family Law Code Ann. § 5-560 (2014)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: September 26, 1974
