
I. Seeking Grant Funding





The Superintendent/designee will provide grant-seeking and related services to Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees by:




Identifying possible funding opportunities through outreach and involvement with community, philanthropic and business entities, and through relationships with federal, state, and local agencies.



Identifying and facilitating grant funding opportunities through information gathered directly from needs assessments and meetings with employees.



Providing resources for grant research and grant writing and training in the use of those resources to HCPSS employees.




II. Receiving and Administering Grant Funds





Upon receiving grant funding, the grant manager assigned to a particular grant or grants will:




Manage the implementation of the grant(s) in compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws, as well as the terms of the Grant Agreement.



Ensure that the tasks and terms set forth in the grant are completed in accordance with the approved budget and timeline.



Ensure the quality and timeliness of products, reports, financial statements, and other materials to be delivered under the terms of the grant.



Coordinate with the Superintendent/designee and other HCPSS employees as appropriate for the completion of required evaluations, reports, billings, and audits.




III. Completion of Grants





The Superintendent/designee will monitor project spending during the life of a project and provide notice of termination to the grant manager.



The Offices of Accounting and Budget will provide a final financial report to the funding source as required.



The grant manager is responsible for completing any final project status reports and filing a copy with the Superintendent/designee.



When a school monitors spending during the life of the grant, the principal is responsible for completing all final financial and project status reports.



Principals are responsible for submitting an annual report of all grants received during the fiscal year to the Superintendent/designee.



Unless otherwise specified, the tenure of all positions funded by grants is conditional upon continued grant funding. The grant manager will work with the Office of Human Resources to provide guidance to temporary and permanent HCPSS employees about their rights and responsibilities regarding employment with HCPSS upon termination of the grant.



Any equipment purchased with grant funds are solely the property of HCPSS and must remain with the HCPSS school or facility original to the grant until the end of the lifecycle of the equipment. Once the equipment is determined to be obsolete, unsafe, outdated, or when the items no longer have significant use to the instructional or support programs of HCPSS, they will be collected from the site for data wiping, then sold, traded, destroyed, or disposed of by other means.



The provisions in Section III. also apply to all grants awarded with non-HCPSS entities (other school districts, government entities, nonprofits) or grants where HCPSS is designated as the subgrantee.




IV. Monitoring



Policy 4000 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Office of the Deputy Superintendent.


V. History



ADOPTED: June 14, 2001
