
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes that schools receive financial support for school-related activities from the community, parent organizations, and students. Since school activity funds are public funds entrusted to the school for the benefit of Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) students, the Board requires that these funds be managed in a way that is both fiscally and educationally responsible.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish parameters for the accountability of school activity funds.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Each school will use its school activity funds for the benefit of students currently enrolled in the HCPSS unless other purposes are specifically designated by a donor and will communicate this to all prospective donors.



School activity funds will be accounted for in a manner consistent with the HCPSS School Activity Funds Manual.



The approval of the principal is required for school activity funds to be spent. School activity funds will only be spent for the following education-related purposes as defined by the HCPSS School Activity Funds Manual:




Approved expenditures for improvements to real property in accordance with
Policy 6060 Community Improvements to School Sites or School Facilities
.



Approved technology expenditures.



Books/media equipment.



Co-Curricular activities.



Compensation for services.



Defraying costs or charges for students.



Equipment.



Extra-curricular activities.



Materials of Instruction.



Meeting expenses.



Staff development expenses.



Student recognition, awards, or incentives.



Student snacks.



Supplies.




V. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the fiduciary responsibilities for all schools are met.



The school principal is the fiduciary agent for school activity funds and as such will maintain these funds in accordance with HCPSS policies and procedures and for ensuring these funds are used for education-related purposes.



The Superintendent/designee will provide the School Funds Report to the Board, annually, which will include beginning balances, total increase and total decreases as well as the ending school activity funds balance for each school activity account.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal


VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 27, 2005
