
I. Policy Statement



As a part of its obligation to publicly account for the resources dedicated to the education of students of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS), the Board of Education of Howard County is responsible for compiling and reporting information on the system’s fixed assets to the county government and other entities as part of its annual financial statements. These assets, the tangible items that typically have significant value, include property, facilities, and other assets that make up and enhance the physical environments for students and staff.  Therefore, the HCPSS must establish and maintain control over these items.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the Board’s fixed assets are acquired, safeguarded, controlled, disposed of, and accounted for in accordance with state and federal regulations, auditor requirements, and applicable accounting pronouncements. This policy also addresses the following issues related to fixed assets:


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The HCPSS Fixed Asset Management System will maintain control and ensure accountability of fixed assets.



The Fixed Asset Management System will track and monitor the movement of all fixed assets from one location to another.



The Fixed Asset Management System will use sequentially numbered tags either affixed to or assigned to all fixed assets as appropriate.



All newly acquired fixed assets are to be marked upon receipt and acceptance labeled to identify the asset as HCPSS property.



All fixed assets will be disposed of in accordance with
Policy 4080 Disposition of Property
.



The principal/account manager/designee of each school or location:




At least annually conduct a review of the fixed assets located in his/her school or location.



Notify the Accounting Office and other appropriate school system staff of any items that are either missing or not included in the Fixed Asset Management System inventory.



Implement a process for safeguarding and monitoring the use of fixed assets by staff and students.




V. Responsibilities





The Accounting Office will maintain of the Fixed Asset Management System.



The Chief Business and Technology Officer will comply with the regulations and procedures of this policy.



The Chief Business and Technology Officer has overall responsibility for the Fixed Asset Management System.



The principal/account manager/designee will ensure their schools/programs compliance with this policy and its procedures.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. Reference



A. Legal




Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, § 4-115




VIII. History



ADOPTED: November 26, 2002
