
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is required to invest and deposit unexpended funds pursuant to specific provisions of the Annotated Code of Maryland and it is the intent of the Board to follow best practices with regard to the investment of these funds.


II. Purpose



This investment policy is intended to establish the investment scope, objectives, and delegation of authority from the Board to the Superintendent/designee to invest school system unexpended funds, and the standards of prudence to be applied to such investments.


III. Standards





Scope


All unexpended funds under the control and direction of the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) will be administered in accordance with the provisions of this investment policy.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure that the school system’s investment policy is consistent with COMAR 25.03.03 and the local government investment guidelines adopted by the Maryland State Treasurer. The annual audit financial statement confirms the Board’s investments and policies.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure compliance with the standards of this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority





The authority and power to invest, redeem, sell, exchange, and reinvest unexpended or surplus monies will be with the Superintendent/designee. No agency and/or person may engage in an investment transaction on behalf of the school system without the expressed written approval of the Superintendent/designee subject to this policy and written delegations of authority by the Board.



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures to implement this policy.




VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definition applies:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Local Government Article, Section 17-101 – Investment or deposit of surplus money by counties, municipalities, and other entities.



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Local Government Article, Section 17-104 – Investment in open-end and closed-end investment companies and trusts.



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Local Government Article, Sections 17-301 through 17-309 – Local Government Investment Pool.



COMAR 25.03.03 – Local Government Investment Guidelines and Reporting Requirements.




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 10, 2008
