
I. Policy Statement



School facilities occupy a prominent place in the community. The selection of a school site or other property for school system use should enhance the education facility, reflect the community use of schools, and recognize the impact of the facility on the surrounding neighborhood. Size, location, health and safety issues, topography, and aesthetics will be considered to ensure timely construction of appropriate facilities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to direct the process of obtaining property for school system use.


III. Definitions





Interagency Committee on School Construction (IAC) – A committee established under the Maryland Board of Public Works in accordance with Section 5-302 of the Education Article. The committee is chaired by the State Superintendent of Schools or the Superintendent’s designee, and is responsible for the review/approval of any site acquisition.



Phase 1 Environmental Site Assessment – An assessment typically conducted during real estate transactions which is designed to determine if existing or potential environmental liabilities exist at a property. The assessment includes, but is not limited to, a review of previous use, studies of local groundwater and surface water conditions, a site inspection, interviews, and findings.



Site Review Committee – An interagency committee responsible for advising the Superintendent and Board of Education on the feasibility of school site development and collaborating to ensure county approval of a site acquisition, which is an IAC requirement. The committee is composed of representatives of the Howard County Public School System, the Howard County Department of Public Works, and the Howard County Department of Planning and Zoning.




IV. Standards





Determination of Need


The need for a site is determined by numerous factors, including, but not limited to, overcrowding of existing buildings, projected enrollment, observed and anticipated increase in development in this and neighboring counties, census data relating to size of families, and changes in facility needs to keep pace with program or system requirements. Trends in present and future availability and price of land and infrastructure will be used to determine the optimum time for acquiring sites at the least cost to the taxpayers.


V. Compliance





The Superintendent is responsible for recommending properties for acquisition to the Board.



The Superintendent/designee is responsible for directing staff on all matters relating to site acquisition.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Sections 4-115, 116, 118, 119; Sections 5-301, 302



Howard County Subdivision and Land Development Regulations



Howard County Adequate Public Facilities Ordinance



Howard County Zoning Regulations




VIII. History



ADOPTED: September 10, 1969
