
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education is responsible for providing safe, inclusive, nurturing, and supportive educational and work environments for all students and employees. The Board recognizes the continuing need to plan, design, and construct new educational facilities and to renovate or make additions to existing schools that are in accordance with all applicable codes, as well as Maryland and federal law. Fulfilling this responsibility requires a comprehensive program that monitors population trends, enrollment trends, educational program spatial requirements, cost/benefit considerations, technologies that support environmentally responsible construction, and an annual six-year capital improvement program.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the administration of the school planning and the school construction programs in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS).


III. Standards





This policy and associated implementation procedures apply to the capital improvement projects that are listed as part of the Board’s annually approved capital budget, which requires contracts and consultant agreements.



The HCPSS will employ a sustainable design construction that supports educational program needs and creates a safe and nurturing environment for students and employees within allotted budgetary resources.



The school planning/school construction program will include a sequential plan of action and will be divided into the following ten general categories, each requiring professionally trained and experienced employees to plan and carry out the requirements of the program consistent with the Superintendent’s Safety Guidelines for Renovation and Construction Projects and all applicable regulations.




Long-Range Planning and Student Population Projection




This category will involve the annual projection of pupil population growth by the Office of School Planning. Short-range demographic studies to support the Capital Improvement Program, school attendance area studies, transportation planning, and other special needs are also included.



By state regulation, the Board is also required to develop, maintain, and annually update a master plan for the school system for submission to the Interagency Commission on School Construction (IAC). This plan has as its basis a variety of population studies, which guide the decision making for school facilities on both a long and short-term basis.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will oversee the overall administration of the school planning and construction programs.



The Office of School Facilities will assist with design reviews and post-construction maintenance.



The Office of the Environment will review and monitor the design and construction phases related to environmental initiatives and occupational regulatory compliance.



The Office of School Planning and the Office of School Construction will collaborate with all appropriate internal and external parties in order to obtain the efficient implementation of this policy.



For capital improvement projects, the principal will communicate project information to the parents and the community in a timely manner.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article



§ 4-115 (right to acquire land, school sites or buildings)



§ 4-116 (land use approval procedures)



§ 4-117 (construction and remodeling conformance to state and county building codes)



§ 5-301 (Interagency Commission on School Construction, established)



§ 5-302 (composition and role of the IAC)



§ 5-303 (project eligibility and cost-share)



§ 5-312 (state funding support related to high performance buildings)



COMAR 13A.01.02.03 (requirements for obtaining State Superintendent’s approval for school construction projects)



COMAR 15.05.02 (regulations pertaining to integrated Pest Management and Notification of Pesticide Use in a Public School Building or on School Grounds)



Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)



Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA)



Maryland Occupational Safety and Health Act (MOSHA)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: September 4, 1968
