
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County is responsible for naming and renaming schools in
a manner that is consistent across the county. The Board requires that all schools will be named
for geographic terms related to areas of the county served. It is the intent of the Board to
involve students, employees, a geographer and/or historian, and interested citizens in the
process of naming schools.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines and standards for the school naming and
renaming process.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The provisions of this policy apply to the naming and renaming of schools only.



Other buildings and structures in the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) will not be named. This includes ancillary school facilities or structures such as gymnasiums, libraries, auditoriums, cafeterias, stadiums, fields, or other facilities.



Citizens who are a part of the local community will be involved in the naming or renaming of schools through participation on school naming/renaming committees.



Geographic terms, both physical and human geographic features, will be used in selecting the specific names for schools. Schools will not be named after a person.



The duplication of names for elementary, middle, high schools, or special schools will be avoided.



Schools will be named with consideration of cultural proficiency.



The school naming process does not include naming school mascots or establishing school colors. This is to be done by the students and local community that the school serves.




V. Responsibilities





The Board will determine the names of public schools in Howard County.



The Superintendent/designee will convene school naming/renaming committees.



The Superintendent/designee will provide the School Naming/Renaming Committee recommendations to the Board for approval.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




(none)




VIII. History



ADOPTED: January 13, 2005
