
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education appreciates the willingness and desire of community individuals and groups to collaborate with the Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) to improve school system sites and/or facilities. The Board will consider improvement to school system facilities proposals that are consistent with the mission and vision of the HCPSS.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide procedures for community individuals and/or groups to submit proposals for improvements to school system facilities and to ensure that the improvements align with the HCPSS mission and established criteria relative to accessibility, environmentally friendly materials, workmanship, equipment, alterations, and funding.


III. Standards





The petitioner will submit to the Director of School Facilities/designee an Improvement to School System Sites or Facilities Proposal Form outlining the improvement to a school system facility or site owned by the Board.



The petitioner must adhere to the following process for submitting a proposal for consideration:




Collaborate with the school administrator(s) or building administrator to discuss and gain agreement for the proposal idea.



Obtain, complete, and submit an Improvement to School System Sites or Facilities Proposal Form.



Attend a site meeting, if required by the Director of Facilities/designee.



Submit any additional information, if requested by the Director of Facilities/designee.



Comply with Policy 4010 Donations.



Obtain any required insurance, permits, licenses, etc., as required by the Board/HCPSS and/or county agencies, prior to the start of work.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will ensure the efficient implementation of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will provide an annual report to the Board on the implementation of this policy.



The Board will ensure improvement to school system sites or facilities, as applicable, in accordance with Policy 4010 Donations.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent/designee is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




COMAR 13 A.01.02




B. Board Policies





Policy 1080 Educational Equity



Policy 4010 Donations




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 7, 1970
