
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education is committed to ensuring a safe and nurturing environment for its employees. The Board values a work environment free of any use, manufacture, possession, or distribution of alcohol. The Board recognizes that such conduct compromises the well being of students and staff and impairs performance.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish standards and procedures for employees regarding the possession, use, or distribution of alcohol.


III.  Standards





Compliance with this policy is a condition of employment, and violations of this policy may constitute grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



An employee may not possess, use, or be under the influence of alcohol on school system property, at an HCPSS-sponsored event, or while engaged in HCPSS duties.



The HCPSS will not hire anyone who is known to currently abuse alcohol.



An employee may not possess, distribute, or intend to distribute alcohol on school system property, at an HCPSS-sponsored event, or while engaged in HCPSS duties.



An employee may not be in constructive possession of alcohol on school system property, at an HCPSS-sponsored event, or while engaged in HCPSS duties.



An employee may not engage in conduct that would constitute a violation of federal or state law concerning the use, manufacture, distribution, or intended distribution of alcohol.



An employee who operates an HCPSS vehicle is required to report any alcohol charges to the Office of Staff Relations prior to the start of their next workday following the filing of legal charges.



An employee who is convicted of an alcohol-related offense may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.



Employees must report any violation or suspected violation of this policy to the Office of Staff Relations within one (1) workday. Failure to report policy violations or suspected policy violations may result in disciplinary action.



Every supervisor and/or principal must immediately report any violations or alleged violations of this policy to the Superintendent/designee for investigation.



An employee who aids, abets, and/or conspires with any person to violate this policy may be subject to disciplinary action.



An employee who knowingly gives false information, fails to cooperate, or in any way impedes any investigation conducted by the Superintendent/designee may be subject to disciplinary action.



Conduct constituting a potential criminal violation regarding alcohol will be reported to the police by the Superintendent/designee.



An employee may be required to participate in a treatment program designed to address alcohol abuse and related problems.




IV. Responsibilities





The Office of Human Resources will ensure that all newly hired employees receive notification of this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that all employees are made aware of this policy. Policy updates will be posted on the HCPSS website.



All employees will report alleged violations of this policy or implementation procedures to their immediate supervisor.



Supervisors and principals will report alleged violations of this policy to the Superintendent/designee.



The Superintendent/designee will investigate and make decisions regarding any reports of alleged violations of this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. Reference



A. Legal




The Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 12114



34 C.F.R. 84.100-115



34 C.F.R. 84.200-230



34 C.F.R. 84.605-670



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Criminal Law Article, Section 10-111



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-205



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 6-202



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 26-103



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Health General Article, Section 17-214



COMAR 10.10.10.01-.10



COMAR 13A.12.05.02



COMAR 13A.12.05.03




VIII. History



ADOPTED: September 13, 1990
