
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes that student field trips, aligned with the Howard County Public School System’s (HCPSS) vision and mission, will engage and inspire students with meaningful and enriching experiences.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines to plan, approve, and conduct student field trips off and on school grounds and within the United States.


III. Standards





All field trips require a Teacher-In-Charge.



The provisions of this policy apply to all field trips organized and coordinated by HCPSS Teachers-In-Charge.



Field trips will align with HCPSS curricular programs and/or the school systems vision and mission.



Field Trips will align with at least one of the field trip categories in Section VI.D. below.



Field trips will be conducted in accordance with rules, regulations, and policies related to the health, safety, and well-being of students, employees, and chaperones such as those listed in Section III. of this policy.



No field trip will be conducted without receiving full approval through the administrative approval process.



All students regardless of their individual status or perceived status in a protected class (race, color, creed, national origin, immigration status, religion, physical, mental, or learning ability, pregnancy, age, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, sexual orientation, or socioeconomic status) must be provided an opportunity to participate in field trips when they take place.



Transportation for field trips will be provided by an authorized public carrier in accordance with HCPSS transportation procedures.



Health services employees will ensure that all field trips comply with current school health services requirements from the Maryland Board of Nursing, the Maryland State Department of Education School Health Services, and the HCPSS Health Services Requirements and Procedures.



Chaperones will be processed through the visitor management system, complete the Child Abuse and Neglect Training, and are required to read, sign, and return the Chaperone Responsibility Form acknowledging their responsibilities and understanding of HCPSS field trip policy and procedures, prior to participating in a field trip.



Parents, chaperones, and students will receive, at minimum, information including:




Expectations for conduct consistent with federal, state, and local laws and all HCPSS policies.



Safety, emergency, and security procedures.



Logistics and specific itineraries.



Health and medical provisions, as appropriate.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will develop and implement procedures to ensure the safety, health, and well-being of all participants on field trips.



The Superintendent/designees will review and ensure that field trips comply with the provisions of this policy prior to approval.



The Superintendent/designee will review and update the Field Trip Procedures and Forms Packet annually.



The Director of Transportation will update and implement procedures for safe student travel.



The Health Services Coordinator will update and implement health procedures to meet the needs of students participating in field trips.



School-based administrators will ensure that each field trip has been approved through the administrative process and complies with the provisions of this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 7-308 (Searches in Schools)



COMAR 10.27.09.01 Standards of Practice for Registered Nurse



COMAR 10.27.11.02.B6 Delegation of Nursing Functions, CMT



COMAR 10.27.39.10.53 Maryland Board of Nursing, Maryland Nurse Practice Act




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 14, 1988
