
I. General Enrollment Procedures





A student will be registered by a parent who has established bona fide residence in Howard County. The following documentation will be provided during the registration process. (Exceptions are made for homeless students; see Policy 9300 Homeless Children and Youth.) If the online registration tool is used, registration is not complete until original proof of parent identity is provided.




Proof of student’s date of birth


Acceptable documents include a birth certificate, hospital or physician’s certificate, church/baptismal certificate, passport/visa, or parent’s affidavit.


II. Enrollment Responsibilities of Pupil Personnel Workers





Investigation


At the request of a school administrator, the Office of Pupil Personnel will investigate the residency or custody status when a student seeks to meet enrollment or eligibility requirements or when there is cause to suspect an unreported change in residency or an enrollment that does not satisfy the criteria of this policy and will report the findings. The Office of Pupil Personnel will utilize the services of the School Security Office for record searches, investigative follow-up, or other actions necessary to residency investigations.


III. Additional Considerations for Enrollment in Prekindergarten, Kindergarten, and First Grade





Prekindergarten


The Blueprint for Maryland’s Future legislation, codified in the Annotated Code of Maryland Education Article §7–1A–01. has established three tiers of priority for access to prekindergarten which are dependent upon student age, family income, seeking full-time enrollment status, and other factors. Prekindergarten is provided to any child who meets first priority criteria (Tier 1) and whose parents seek enrollment.


IV. Student Reassignment Initiated by Parents





Parents requesting reassignment of students will submit the Student Reassignment Request form, with appropriate supporting documentation, to the Superintendent/designee for Residency and Reassignment.



The Superintendent/designee for Residency and Reassignment will approve or deny the request based on the provisions of this policy. Parents will be notified in writing of the decision. Parents may appeal the decision to the appropriate Superintendent/designee within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of notification. Individuals who disagree with the decisions of the Superintendent/designee with regard to enrollment and assignment may appeal to the Board of Education pursuant to the requirement of the Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, Section 4-205(c)(3). The appeal must be received in writing within 30 calendar days of the date of the written decision.


A student who resides in Howard County and is the child of a HCPSS school-based employee requesting reassignment must maintain enrollment in the school where assigned during a given school year. The student can attend the assigned school and the associated feeder cluster schools through the student’s entire education as long as the parent remains an employee at the work location where the assignment was granted. The only exception to this is if the HCPSS employee is reassigned to another work location due to an administrative transfer or involuntary transfer. In these cases, if the student has already been approved for reassignment, then they may attend the reassigned school and the associated feeder cluster schools throughout the student’s entire education as long as the parent remains a HCPSS school-based employee. Administrative placement standards described in Policy 9000 Section III.O. remain applicable.


V. Student Reassignment Initiated by Parents under Standard M. (Open School Designation-General)



All schools will have attendance areas determined by the Board. A student attending public schools in Howard County will attend the designated school serving the attendance area in which their parents have bona fide residence unless reassignment is granted or administrative placement occurs. In the event that the Board identifies schools that are open to enrollment by students not living in the schools’ attendance area, student reassignment may be initiated by parents in accordance with the following procedures:


VI. Student Reassignment Initiated by Parents under Standard N. (Open School Designation-Directed)



In the event that the Board identifies schools with a programmatic initiative that are open to enrollment by students not living in the programmatic initiative schools’ attendance area, student reassignment may be initiated by parents in accordance with the procedures described in Section V.A-C. of these implementation procedures. When conducting the lottery, sibling information will be taken into account.


VII. Administrative Placements into the Junior Reserve Officers Training Corps (JROTC)



For admission to the JROTC program:


VIII. Administrative Placements into a Programmatic Initiative Specified by the Superintendent



One or more schools may be identified by the Superintendent to house various programmatic initiatives.


IX. Definitions



Within the context of these implementation procedures, the following definitions apply:


X. Monitoring



Policy 9000 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics.


XI. History



ADOPTED: November 14, 1991
