
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education (Board) is committed to ensuring that a quality education is provided for each student in a welcoming environment. Daily attendance is essential to student achievement and required in order to demonstrate mastery of material and receive credit for a course. The Board recognizes the strong correlation between regular attendance, academic achievement, and the completion of school and future success. The Board further believes that regular attendance is a shared responsibility of the family, the student, and the school.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish the requirements for student attendance, provide guidance for attendance monitoring and recording, and identify structures that support students’ attendance.


III. Standards





Annual Notification


Attendance guidelines will be communicated annually to all students, parents, and Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) school-based employees.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will monitor standards and procedures related to attendance as set forth in state law and policy.



Principals will inform students, HCPSS employees, and parents annually of the provisions of this policy.



Principals will assign and oversee designated HCPSS employees to monitor the recording of daily/period attendance, report student absences (lawful and unlawful), and enter and withdraw students for purposes of enrollment.



Teachers will maintain daily/period attendance electronically in accordance with guidelines outlined in the Maryland Student Records System Manual.



The Technology Department will retain attendance source documents in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the Maryland Student Records System Manual.



Teachers will provide make-up work for students who are lawfully absent.



Students will be in school or attend a school-related activity each day school is in session.



School-based problem-solving teams will develop interventions and provide support to students who are chronically absent or habitually truant.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, §§7-301 through 7-305



COMAR 13A.08.01.02, Age for School Attendance



COMAR 13A.08.01.03, Lawful Absence



COMAR 13A.08.01.04, Unlawful Absence




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 23, 1992
