
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County recognizes the connection between health and wellness and student achievement and that students need sufficient nourishing foods and physical activity in order to grow, learn, and thrive. The Board recognizes that food is a core determinant of health and food insecurity leads to numerous health outcomes. The Board also recognizes its responsibility to provide a safe and healthy learning environment for all students. The Board believes that employee wellness is also an integral part of a healthy school environment and believes that promoting employee wellness fosters improved health status, improved morale, greater commitment to the health of students, and positive role modeling opportunities.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide direction to HCPSS employees regarding employee and student wellness through nutrition education, physical education, physical activity, and the selection of nourishing foods and beverages and to fulfill the requirements of the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010.


III. Standards





Health and Nutrition Education


Health and nutrition education provides students with opportunities to acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and skills necessary for making health-promoting decisions, achieving health literacy, adopting health-enhancing behaviors, and promoting the health of others.


IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will provide an annual report on the implementation of the policy.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that any subsequent changes to this policy are reported to the MSDE.



The Superintendent/designee will develop, implement and monitor a process for the development and review of the HCPSS’s curriculum and assessment programs that complies with state and local requirements and provides sufficient academic rigor for students.



The Superintendent/designee will provide for annual notification of this policy and procedures to HCPSS employees, students, parents, and the community.



The Superintendent/designee will review this policy at least every three years and recommend it for revision as necessary.



The Superintendent/designee will ensure that opportunities for physical activity are provided during the school day in accordance with this policy.



The Superintendent/designee will oversee school implementation and compliance with this policy, including:




Provide technical assistance and support to assist schools with implementation of the policy and improve programming functions.



Ensure schools are offered support services through various departments including the HCPSS Food and Nutrition Service, Physical Education, and Health and Physical Education, to ensure the full implementation of this policy.



Establish a process for identifying and distributing resources made available by qualified agencies and community organizations for the purpose of collaborating with schools and community organizations such as Boosters, the Community Advisory Council (CAC), and the PTA Council of Howard County (PTACHC) to enhance implementation of this policy.



Establish a process to gather feedback from individual schools, community partners, students, and parents on the implementation of the policy.



Conduct periodic evaluations and report on systemwide and individual schools’ compliance with the policy.



Conduct systemwide review and assessment of this policy on its effectiveness and, based on this assessment, propose policy revisions at least every three years.



Retain records documenting compliance with the requirements of HCPSS Policy 9090 Wellness Through Nutrition and Physical Activity.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal


Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010” (Sec. 204 of Public Law 111-296) 124 Stat. 3183 Code of Federal Regulations, as amended
Local School Wellness Policy Implementation, 7 C.F.R. Parts 210 and 220 (2016)
National School Lunch Act, Public Law 79-396, Section 9 amended
Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004, Public Law 108-265, Section 204
  4. U.S. Code §1758b - Local school wellness policy
  7.CFR 210.10 - Meal requirements for lunches and requirements for afterschool snacks
  7.CFR 210-11, Foods of Nutritional Value
  7.CFR 220.12, Competitive Food Services
  7.CFR 210.31 - Local school wellness policy
COMAR 13A.04.13 Maryland State Physical Education Curriculum
COMAR 13A.04.13.01 Requirements for Physical Education Instructional Programs for Grades K-12
COMAR 13A.04.18 Program in Comprehensive Health Education
COMAR 13A.05.05 Programs of Pupil Services
COMAR 13A.05.05.05-.15 Regulations for School Health Services
COMAR 13A.06.03 Interscholastic Athletics in the State
COMAR 13A.06.04 Corollary Athletic Programs
Maryland State Student Health Promotion Act of 2005
Fitness and Equity Act 2008


VIII. History



ADOPTED: March 23, 2006
