
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and nurturing educational environment conducive to student learning.  The Board recognizes the right of students to express themselves through their choice of personal attire and affirms that the primary responsibility for a student’s attire resides with the student and parents.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines, standards, and implementation procedures for student dress during the school day and during other school-related activities.


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





The student dress code will be implemented equitably regardless of students’ race, color, creed, national origin, immigration status, religion, physical, mental, or educational disability, pregnancy, age, gender, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, sexual orientation, marital status, veteran status, socioeconomic status, body type, body size, or personal style.



Students will wear attire that contributes to a safe school environment conducive to learning.



Students may wear attire of their choice that is otherwise not prohibited (See Section IV.F.).



Students may wear attire that aligns with their gender, gender expression, or gender identity.



Students may wear religious attire without fear of discipline or discrimination.



Students must wear:




Shirt



Bottom(e.g. pants, sweatpants, shorts, skirt, dress, and leggings)



Shoes (curricular-specific and activity-specific shoe requirements are permitted).




Students are permitted to wear:


V. Responsibilities



The Superintendent/designee will implement this policy and ensure that students, parents, and school-based staff are provided annual notice of these provisions.


VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures to implement this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Family Law Article §5-507




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 1, 1971
