
I. Notification





The principal will inform all students, parents, and Howard County Public School System (HCPSS) employees of the provisions of this policy annually and at other times as appropriate. This may be done in the following ways:




Making announcements via the public address system at the beginning of the school year.



Publishing the information in school newsletters.



Publishing the information in staff/student handbooks.



Posting the information on a bulletin board and/or school’s website.



Making the information available for new students through the registration process.




II. Investigative Procedures





Upon receipt of information that a student has been arrested for a reportable offense or engaged in a community offense, the principal/designee may coordinate with the Community and Reportable Offense Evaluation (CARE) Team to conduct an investigation with assistance provided by the Superintendent/designee as needed. This investigation may include, but is not limited to, the questioning of the student, other students, and possible witnesses. When considering invoking Policy 9280, the principal/designee will schedule a conference with the student and parent to include members of the CARE Team be present where applicable. This meeting will provide due process in regards to all information received and investigative findings, discuss the allegations, gather additional information, and advise of policy and rights. The student and parent will be notified of their option to have an HCPSS school-based employee that they are comfortable with present at this meeting.



Using information obtained in the investigation, the principal/designee and CARE Team, working together with the Superintendent/designee, will determine within 48 hours, or as soon as practicable, whether no action should be taken, or the student should be recommended for assignment to an alternative education placement and/or disciplined.




III. Administrative Response Options





No Action Taken


The principal/designee and CARE Team, working in collaboration with the Superintendent/designee, may determine that the situation does not require discipline or the assignment of the student to an alternative education placement.  If it is determined by the CARE Team that no threat to the safety and well-being of students and HCPSS employees is identified, the student will remain in their current placement and a CARE plan may be put in place.


IV. Monitoring



Policy 9280 implementation procedures will be overseen by the Division of Academics and the Division of School Management and Instructional Leadership.


V. History



ADOPTED: April 3, 1990
