
I. Policy Value Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County (Board) is committed to providing a safe, inclusive, and nurturing school environment. The Board believes that fostering a school climate where the worth and dignity of individuals are valued and their safety and rights are protected is essential to its mission.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to establish and communicate to students, parents, and HCPSS employees the procedures and guidelines for responding when students are charged with reportable offenses and/or have engaged in community offenses.


III. Standards





Reportable Offense




Maryland law obligates law enforcement agencies to inform the Superintendents and local education agencies when a student has been arrested for a reportable offense. Upon receipt of information of an arrest of a student for such an offense, the Superintendent/designee will provide the principal of the school in which the student is enrolled with the arrest information, including the charges.



If a principal/designee obtains information that a student has been arrested for a reportable offense, the principal/designee will notify the Superintendent/designee to obtain official confirmation of this information.



Upon receipt of notification, the principal/designee will consider whether or not the student’s presence in the school has a direct effect on student safety, order, and/or the general welfare of the school.



Upon the recommendation of the principal/designee and Community and Reportable Offense Evaluation (CARE) Team of the school attended by the student arrested for a reportable offense, the Superintendent/designee may assign the student to an alternative education placement and/or discipline the student. If the principal/designee decides to take disciplinary action in accordance with Policy 9200 Student Discipline, students will be accorded due process before discipline is administered which includes being made aware of their right to appeal.



If a student is removed or excluded from the student’s regular school program for a reportable offense, the principal or Superintendent/designee will invite the student’s attorney, if the student has an attorney, to participate in the conference between the student or the student’s parent and the principal or Superintendent/designee.



A student who has been arrested for a reportable offense may only be disciplined if there is sufficient evidence proving the student’s conduct and the student’s presence in school has a direct effect on the order and general welfare of the school. The notification provided by law enforcement agencies that the student has been arrested for a reportable offense may not be used as evidence that the student engaged in the conduct.



The discipline of a child with a disability, including removal or exclusion from the child’s regular school program for more than ten (10) consecutive school days for a reportable offense, will be conducted in conformance with the requirements of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) of the United States Code, including the requirements related to a manifestation determination. The principal or Superintendent/design will invite the student’s attorney, if the student has an attorney, to participate in the manifestation determination.



Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the manner in which the school obtains information or uses information obtained by any lawful means other than through official notification of the arrest.



Except by order of a juvenile court or other court upon good cause shown, arrest information received is confidential and may not be disclosed by HCPSS employees, by subpoena or otherwise, nor may it be made part of the student record.




IV. Responsibilities





The Superintendent/designee will consider recommendations of the principal/designee and CARE Team when deciding to assign the student to an alternative education placement or to discipline the student. The principal will work with the school-based CARE Team prior to making a recommendation to the Superintendent/designee.



When a student involved in a reportable or community offense is assigned to an alternative program, HCPSS school-based employees will work with parents to help ensure that their child attends the assigned alternative education program.



The Superintendent/designee and the principal/designee will each ensure that reportable offense information remains confidential and is not made part of the student’s record.



The Superintendent/designee and the principal/designee will each afford students all rights of due process as they are outlined under this policy.




V. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop appropriate procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VI. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


VII. References



A. Legal




Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), 20 U.S.C. §§1400 et seq.



Md. Ann. Code, Courts and Judicial Proceedings Article, Section 3-8A-03(d)(4)



Md. Ann. Code, Criminal Law Article, Sections 3-203, 4-101 to 4-102, 4-203 to 4-204, 4-503, 5-602 to 5-609, 5-612 to 5-614, 5-617 to 5-618, 5-627 to 5-628, 6-102 to 6-105, 6-202, 6-301, 7-105, 9-302 to 9-303, 9-305, 9-504 to 9-505, 9-801 to 9-803, and 14-101



Md. Ann. Code, Education Article, Section 7-303



COMAR 13A.05.01, Provision of a Free Appropriate Public Education



COMAR 13A.08.01.17, School Use of Reportable Offenses




VIII. History



ADOPTED: April 3, 1990
