
I. Policy Statement



The Board of Education of Howard County fully supports the development and implementation of a safe and nurturing school environment. Gangs and gang activity disrupt this environment. Thus, the Board prohibits any gang activity and any similar destructive or delinquent group behavior on school property, on school buses, and at school-sponsored functions.


II. Purpose



The purpose of this policy is to provide guidelines, standards, and implementation procedures for:


III. Definitions



Within the context of this policy, the following definitions apply:


IV. Standards





Gang activity is prohibited on all HCPSS school property.



It is a violation of this policy for any student, employee, or third party to engage in gang activity or similar destructive or delinquent group behavior on school property or at school-related activities.



It is a violation of this policy for any gang or gang member to threaten, defame, harass, intimidate, bully, cyberbully, or physically attack another when these actions occur on school property, on a school bus, at a school bus stop, or in connection with any school-related activity. These behaviors also constitute a violation of this policy when they have a direct effect on the order and general welfare of the school (such as negatively affecting the safety or learning environment of a classroom), even if they do not occur on school property or at a school-related activity.



It is a violation of this policy for any individual or suspected gang member to threaten or carry out reprisal or retaliation against individuals:




Who report gang activity and similar destructive or delinquent group behavior.



Who are victims, witnesses, bystanders, or others with reliable information about gang activity and similar destructive or delinquent group behavior.




V. Compliance





The Superintendent/Designee is responsible for ensuring that students, parents, employees, and third parties are notified of the provisions of this policy annually.



The Superintendent/Designee will report incidents of gang activity to the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE) as stipulated in the Safe Schools Reporting Act of 2005.



The school administrator or Superintendent/Designee is responsible for any action taken in response to a violation of this policy and for ensuring that the action taken is in accordance with
Policy 9200 Student Discipline
, the
Student Code of Conduct
, the Procedures for the Threat Management Process, and
Policy 7030 Employee Conduct and Discipline
.



School administrators and/or the Superintendent/Designee will report all confirmed gang activity to law enforcement.



School or central office administrators are responsible for offering appropriate assistance to students, employees, parents, or third parties who have been the object of or affected by behavior prohibited in this policy.



Principals are responsible for complying with investigating and reporting incidents of gang activity in compliance with the Safe Schools Reporting Act of 2010.



Principals will provide regular training for staff on gang prevention and intervention resources.



Principals will designate a school security officer in schools enrolling students in grades 6-12.



The Coordinator of School Security will coordinate the school security partnership meetings.




VI. Delegation of Authority



The Superintendent is authorized to develop procedures for the implementation of this policy.


VII. References



A. Legal




Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. Sec. 1681



Title VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C., Sec 601 and Sec. 2000e.2



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง7-304 Positive Behavioral Supports and Interventions



The Annotated Code of Maryland, Education Article, ยง7-305 Suspensions and Expulsions



COMAR 13A.01.04.03, School Safety



COMAR13A.08.01.11, Disciplinary Action



COMAR 13A.08.04.03, Student Behavior Interventions



Safe Schools Act of 2010, Chapter 188 of 2010 Laws of Maryland




VIII. History



ADOPTED: June 9, 2011
