
I. Definitions



Within the context of these procedures, the following definitions apply:


II. Identification of Students Who Are Homeless





All school-based staff will assist Pupil Personnel Workers in identifying children and youth who are homeless while ensuring privacy and confidentiality.



School staff who suspect that a student’s enrollment or withdrawal is related to a lack of permanent housing will contact the assigned Pupil Personnel Worker or the Office of Pupil Personnel.



Any student or parent who believes they are homeless may self-identify.



If it has been determined that a child or unaccompanied youth lacks permanent housing, the child or unaccompanied youth will be offered immediate registration and enrollment.



The Homeless Education Liaison and Pupil Personnel Worker will collaborate with agencies in Howard County, including Grassroots, Coordinated System of Homeless Services, Hope Works, Community Action Council, Continuum of Care, and the Department of Social Services, to identify and support children and youth who are homeless in the Howard County community.



The Pupil Personnel Worker will ensure that the identity and other relevant information about every school-aged child who is homeless is kept confidential. This information may be shared on a need-to-know basis with staff.



The Homeless Education Liaison, Pupil Personnel Workers, and school personnel will work collaboratively with the Office of Special Education to identify all children from birth-5 years who are homeless and who may be in need of educational services and other support.




III. Enrollment





A school must immediately contact their Pupil Personnel Worker when they suspect a child or unaccompanied youth may be homeless.



Children and youth who have been identified as homeless must be enrolled even if their records, such as academic records, birth certificate, immunizations, proof of residency, or guardianship information are not available at the time of enrollment.




The enrolling school will immediately contact the last school the student attended to obtain relevant academic records.



If immunization and other health records are not available from the previous school, the Pupil Personnel Worker will work in collaboration with the Cluster Nurse to assist the family in obtaining the records.  If the immunization records cannot be located, the Cluster Nurse will assist the family in obtaining the required immunizations.



The Cluster Nurse, Health Assistant, and Pupil Personnel Worker will also work in collaboration with the Homeless Education Liaison to provide information to the family about basic dental and healthcare services offered in the community.




IV. Unaccompanied Homeless Youth





When an unaccompanied homeless youth requests enrollment in school, the school will immediately notify the Pupil Personnel Worker or the Homeless Education Liaison to determine if the youth is homeless. Once a determination is made that the unaccompanied youth is homeless, the school will follow the enrollment procedures outlined in section III of these procedures, above.



The Pupil Personnel Worker will complete the SITH Form and the Caregiver’s Authorization Form for Students in Temporary Housing/Unaccompanied Youth.



The Pupil Personnel Worker will explain and present all available school placement options so that the student can make an informed choice.



The Pupil Personnel Worker, acting as the student’s case manager, will assist the student in obtaining the necessary transportation, school supplies, social services support, medical services, and personal supplies needed.



The Pupil Personnel Worker will inform the unaccompanied homeless youth about the dispute resolution process to ensure that the youth knows the options that exist in case the student disagrees with decisions made by school personnel regarding enrollment, school selection, or services.




V. School Choice





The McKinney-Vento Act entitles students who are homeless to continue their education either:




At their school of origin for the duration of the student’s homelessness.



At the school in the attendance area serving their temporary residence.




VI. Comparable Services



Each student who has been identified as homeless will be provided services comparable to the services offered to other students in the school where the student attends. These services include:


VII. Responsibilities of the Homeless Education Liaison





Provide training for Pupil Personnel Workers and other school-based staff to ensure prompt identification and enrollment of children and youth who are homeless.



Ensure public notice of McKinney Vento rights is disseminated in locations frequented by parents, guardians and unaccompanied youth, in a manner and form understandable to them.



Participate and assist with mediating disputes that occur regarding the enrollment, school selection, and provision of services for homeless children and youth, and ensure the consistent implementation of the dispute resolution process.



Chair meetings of the Homeless Advisory Committee whose purpose is to ensure the coordinated delivery of services to children and youth who are homeless.



Provide training for Pupil Personnel Workers to ensure that children and youth who are homeless are offered case management services that result in the delivery of appropriate educational and related services.



Ensure that Pupil Personnel Workers monitor the academic, attendance, and behavioral data for students who are homeless.



Write and manage grants that provide funds to support the education of children and youth who are homeless.



Collaborate with the Homeless Education Coordinator of the Maryland State Department of Education (MSDE) to ensure the delivery of appropriate services and supports to children and youth who are homeless.



Ensure that Pupil Personnel Workers inform parents/guardians and unaccompanied youth about available transportation services and assist them in obtaining transportation.



Communicate regularly with representatives of community agencies that provide services and supports to children and youth who are homeless and their families.



Ensure prompt reporting of required data to the MSDE.



Participate in professional development and technical assistance meetings as determined appropriate by the State Homeless Education Coordinator.




VIII. Dispute Resolution





If a dispute arises regarding the enrollment, school placement, or services provided to a homeless student, the parent or unaccompanied youth will receive information explaining the dispute resolution process. The Pupil Personnel Worker will provide this information, which includes a copy of written instructions for engaging the dispute resolution process and the Dispute Resolution Process for Students in Temporary Housing – Form 1.



During the dispute resolution process, the homeless student will be:




Admitted to the school of choice.



Provided transportation to that school until the dispute is resolved.




IX. Case Management and Support





Pupil Personnel Workers will be responsible for the case management and coordination of services for homeless children and youth.



Case management and coordination of services will include:




Facilitating the completion of the SITH Form and transportation forms.



Ensuring the immediate registration and enrollment of the homeless student.



Coordinating supports and services when a family has children attending multiple schools.



Collecting academic and health records.



Collaborating with the SST to address and monitor the social, emotional, academic, and health-related needs of the student.



Ensuring that the student has the necessary school supplies and materials.



Referring families of students who are homeless to community resources such as mental health, social services, housing, medical and dental, employment, food banks, emergency shelter, and other services, as needed.



Collaborating with other school personnel, including school counselors, administrators, and health services staff, regarding the specific needs of the student who is homeless.



Requesting assistance as needed from the SST.



Monitoring the student’s academic progress, attendance, and behavior.



Referring the student for academic intervention, if needed.



Completing quarterly progress reports and homeless reports.



Serving as the point of contact between the school, the family, and the community.



Ensuring that parents and guardians of children and youth who are homeless are informed of the educational and related opportunities available to their children and are provided with meaningful opportunities to participate in the education of their children.



Assisting with the transition of homeless children and youth who transfer out of the HCPSS to other school systems.




X. Special Considerations





Students identified as homeless will be referred to a SST to provide academic, social-emotional, and/or socioeconomic support as needed.



Schools will use the academic intervention and support services available at the school prior to requesting assistance from other sources.



Students who are homeless may require consideration and accommodations when circumstances beyond their control impact their school performance and engagement.



Students who are homeless will receive school-based waivers for field trips and any fees associated with school-related graduation activities.



Staff will use alternate ways to engage and involve parents of students who are homeless.



Counselors will ensure that students who are homeless have information regarding tuition waivers for comprehensive summer school and selected school system summer programs.



High school counselors will ensure that students who are homeless have information regarding free registration for college placement exams and college applications as well as information on qualifying for financial support in college.



In collaboration with the Office of School Counseling, procedures will be implemented to identify and remove barriers that prevent homeless youth from receiving credit for full or partial coursework satisfactorily completed at a prior school.



Students who are homeless and meet academic eligibility requirements are eligible to participate in extracurricular activities, including interscholastic athletics.




XI. History



ADOPTED: June 9, 2011
